Want to Become Part of House Telvanni?
Outsiders learning of the rabid isolationist and outlander-hating  temperament of House Telvanni wizards often assume it would be  impossible to obtain positions in service to House Telvanni.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
For example, since the Telvanni vigorously defend the right to own  slaves, and since they keep many Argonian and Khajiit as slaves, many  Argonians and Khajiit assume they would not be accepted for service with  House Telvanni.
Not true. Telvanni accept all races as candidates for membership.
And, since the Telvanni are ruled by wizard-lord nobles, many assume  they accept only candidates of the highest intelligence and willpower.
Not true. Telvanni accept candidates of modest intelligence and  willpower.
It is true that advancement in Telvanni ranks depends on high  intelligence and willpower, and that candidates proficient in the arts  of magic -- especially Mysticism, Conjuration, Illusion, Alteration,  Destruction, and Enchanting -- can expect to advance faster and higher  in the ranks.
But adventurers of all races and abilities who apply to Telvanni Mouths  at the Telvanni Council Hall in Sadrith Mora for acceptance in House  Telvanni can expect a cordial welcome.
(Telvanni Councilors do not serve on their house councils in person.  Instead, they are represented by a 'Mouth', a trusted subordinate in  residence at the Council Hall, acting on his patron's behalf, receiving  messengers from their patrons and casting their patron's votes in  Council affairs.)
The truth is that House Telvanni wizard-lords depend on loyal,  well-paid, skilled retainers for most services. Though House Telvanni  does recruit from their own lower classes, they must go outside their  house to hire the craftsmen and specialists they need. And since for  political reasons House Telvanni has chosen to reduce its reliance on  Redoran mercenaries for protection and security, it has been forced to  turn to Western mercenaries for guards and agents.
Promotion in the ranks of House Telvanni, however, is very difficult for  outsiders. Most disconcerting for some potential candidates is House  Telvanni's casual acceptance of murder and assassination of rivals as a  means to advancement. Those reluctant to prove their worthiness by  killing off the competition, and those uncomfortable about competing in  such a ruthless atmosphere, might better employ their time and efforts  in the Mages Guild.