Healers should all know the recipes for the following popular potions.  Fortunately, in most cases, the ingredients are common and cheaply  obtained.
 
To restore health to the afflicted and wounded, combine in equal parts  two or more of the following cheap and common ingredients: marshmerrow,  wickwheat, corkbulb root, and saltrice. Marshmerrow is an important crop  of the Ascadian Isles, but it also grows wild in the Grazelands and on  Azura's Coast. Wickwheat is a wild Ashland grain that grows in the  Grazelands. Corkbulb grows best in the Ascadian Isles. Most saltrice  comes from southeastern Morrowind, but there are also some new and  prospering farms and plantations in the Ascadian Isles. Saltrice  occasionally grows wild in the Grazelands and on Azura's Coast.
 
To restore fatigue after heavy exertion, combine two or more of the  following: crab meat, bread, small kwama egg, and chokeweed. Crabmeat is  taken from the mud crab, commonly found along all coasts. Bread in  Morrowind is usually baked from saltrice flour. Kwama eggs are harvested  from egg mines, and sold everywhere in Morrowind; the smaller eggs  retain properties lost in later states of gestation. Chokeweed is a  tough shrub growing in the rocky highlands of the West Gash.
 
To cure common diseases, combine gravedust and green lichen. Gravedust  is spirit-affinitive dust taken from remains buried in consecrated  ground. Green lichen is a hardy primitive plant that grows in the  Ascadian Isles and Azura's Coast.
 
To restore magicka for spellcasting, combine comberry and frost salts.  Comberry is a bitter berry, used to make wines. It grows mainly in the  Ascadian Isles. Frost salts, by contrast, are rare and expensive. These  crystalline compounds precipitate from elemental frost in solution. Such  residues may be collected from the remains of frost atronachs that have  been banished from the mortal plane.
 
Pilgrims and travelers will find the following inexpensive recipes of  particular interest.
 
Feather reduces the weary traveler's burdens and can be gained from  heather and scuttle. Heather is a low evergreen shrub of the Ascadian  Isles, known for its small, pinkish-purple flowers. Scuttle,  Vvardenfell's favorite local dish, is similar to cheese and made from  the flesh of local beetles.
 
Levitation can be produced from any two of the following ingredients:  trama root, racer plumes, and coda flowers. A thick, bitter-tasting root  of the trama shrub grows in the Ashlands, Molag Amur, and Red Mountain  regions. Racer plumes are plucked from dead cliff racers. Coda flowers  are collected from the primitive draggle-tail plant of the Bitter Coast.
 
The power of Water Breathing is handy for travelers. A potion may be  made from two or more of the following ingredients: luminous russula,  hackle-lo leaf, and kwama cuttle. Luminous russula is a squat,  mottled-brown-and-green toadstool mushroom of the Bitter Coast region.  Hackle-lo leaf is a succulent leaf of the Grazelands, prized for its  taste and its roborative powers. Kwama cuttle is a tough, waxy substance  that comes from sacs in the mouths of kwama.
 
Unfortunately, the potions most favored by adventurers require more rare  and expensive ingredients. There are exceptions, like the easy and  affordable recipe for fire shield. But most such potions require at  least one ingredient with high cost in coin or blood.
 
Fire Shield potions can be made from comberry and sload soap. Comberry  is the bitter berry of the Ascadian Isles. Sload soap is a waxy  substance made from the immature non-sentient forms of the sload. Sload  soap is not expensive, but is only rarely stocked by apothecaries or  alchemists, and cannot be collected locally.
 
An adventurer can fortify his strength with a potion made from ash yams  and dreugh wax. Ash yam is a tough tuberous root vegetable common to the  Ascadian Isles region. Dreugh wax is a tough, waxy substance scraped  from dreugh shells. Dreugh are powerful aquatic creatures, and hunting  them for their hides and wax is a dangerous occupation.
 
Invisibility, one of the most prized effects of potions, can be made  only from crushed diamonds and bittergreen petals. Bittergreen is a red  flowering plant growing in the Red Mountain region. Diamonds, on the  other hand, are very rare and expensive and usually must be purchased  from fine alchemists.