The departed spirits of the Dunmeri, and perhaps those of all races,   persist after death. The knowledge and power of departed ancestors   benefits the bloodlines of Dunmeri Houses. The bond between the living   family members and immortal ancestors is partly blood, partly ritual,   partly volitional. A member brought into the House through marriage   binds himself through ritual and oath into the clan, and gains   communication and benefits from the clan's ancestors; however, his   access to the ancestors is less than his offspring, and he retains some   access to the ancestors of his own bloodline.
Each residence has a family shrine. In poorer homes, it may be no  more  than a hearth or alcove where family relics are displayed and  venerated.  In wealthy homes, a room is set aside for the use of the  ancestors.  This shrine is called the Waiting Door, and represents the  door to  Oblivion.
Here the family members pay their respects to their ancestors through   sacrifice and prayer, through oaths sworn upon duties, and through   reports on the affairs of the family. In return, the family may receive   information, training, and blessings from the family's ancestors. The   ancestors are thus the protectors of the home, and especially the   precincts of the Waiting Door.
It is a family's most solemn duty to make sure their ancestor's  remains  are interred properly in a City of the Dead such as Necrom.  Here the  spirits draw comfort from one another against the chill of the  mortal  world. However, as a sign of great honor and sacrifice, an  ancestor may  grant that part of his remains be retained to serve as  part of a ghost  fence protecting the clan's shrine and family  precincts. Such an  arrangement is often part of the family member's  will, that a  knucklebone shall be saved out of his remains and  incorporated with  solemn magic and ceremony into a clan ghost fence. In  more exceptional  cases, an entire skeleton or even a preserved corpse  may be bound into a  ghost fence.
These remains become a beacon and focus for ancestral spirits, and  for  the spirit of the remains in particular. The more remains used to  make a  ghost fence, the more powerful the fence is. And the most  powerful  mortals in life have the most powerful remains.
The Great Ghost Fence created by the Tribunal to hold back the Blight   incorporates the bones of many heroes of the Temple and of the Houses   Indoril and Redoran who dedicated their spirits to the Temple and Clan   as their surrogate families. The Ghost Fence also contains bones taken   from the Catacombs of Necrom and the many battlefields of Morrowind.
Spirits do not like to visit the mortal world, and they do so only  out  of duty and obligation. Spirits tell us that the otherworld is more   pleasant, or at least more comfortable for spirits than our real  world,  which is cold, bitter, and full of pain and loss.
Spirits that are forced to remain in our world against their will may  become mad spirits, or ghosts.
Some spirits are bound to this world because of some terrible   circumstances of their death, or because of some powerful emotional bond   to a person, place, or thing. These are called hauntings.
Some spirits are captured and bound to enchanted items by wizards. If   the binding is involuntary, the spirit usually goes mad. A willing   spirit may or may not retain its sanity, depending on the strength of   the spirit and the wisdom of the enchanter.
Some spirits are bound against their wills to protect family shrines.   This unpleasant fate is reserved for those who have not served the   family faithfully in life. Dutiful and honorable ancestral spirits often   aid in the capture and binding of wayward spirits.
These spirits usually go mad, and make terrifying guardians. They are   ritually prevented from harming mortals of their clans, but that does   not necessary discourage them from mischievous or peevish behavior.