The Daedra are powerful ancestor spirits, similar in form and substance  to the Tribunal (Blessed Be Their Holy Names), but weaker in power, and  more arbitrary and removed from the affairs of mortals. In old times,  the Chimer worshiped the Daedra as gods. But they did not deserve this  veneration, for the Daedra harm their worshippers as often as help them.
The Advent of the Tribunal (Blessed Be Their Holy Names) changed this  unhappy state. By the Apotheosis, the Tribunal (Blessed Be Their Holy  Names) became the Protectors and High Ancestor Spirits of the Dunmer,  and bade the Daedra to give proper veneration and obedience. The Three  Good Daedra, Boethiah, Azura, and Mephala, recognized the Divinity of  the Triune Ancestors (Blessed Be Their Holy Names). The Rebel Daedra,  Molag Bal, Malacath, Sheogorath, and Mehrunes Dagon, refused to swear  fealty to the Tribunal (Blessed Be Their Holy Names), and their  worshippers were cast out.
These Rebel Daedra thus became the Four Corners of the House of  Troubles, and they continue to plague our tranquility and tempt the  unwary into Heresy and Dark Worship. The Priests of the Temple remain  ever vigilant for signs of the Adversaries' return, sometimes aided by  the loyal Three Good Daedra, who are familiar with the wiles of their  rebellious kin.
The Good Daedra are known to the Temple as the Anticipations, since they  are the early ancestral anticipations of the loving patronage of the  Tribunal. The Anticipations are the Daedra Lords Boethiah, Mephala, and  Azura.
Boethiah is the Anticipation of Almalexia but male to her female.  Boethiah was the ancestor who illuminated the elves ages ago before the  Mythic Era. He told them the truth of Lorkhan's test, and defeated  Auriel's champion, Trinimac. Boethiah ate Trinimac and voided him. The  followers of Boethiah and Trinimac rubbed the soil of Trinimac upon  themselves and changed their skins.
Mephala is the Anticipation of Vivec, but manifold and androgynous.  Mephala taught the Chimer to evade their enemies or kill them with  secret murder. The Chimer were few in those days and threatened on all  sides. Mephala taught the Chimer to build Houses. Later, Mephala created  the Morag Tong. 
Azura is the Anticipation of Sotha Sil, but female to his male. Azura  was the ancestor who taught the Chimer how to be different from the  Altmer. Her teachings are sometimes attributed to Boethiah. In the  stories, Azura is often encountered more as a communal progenitor of the  race as a whole rather than as an individual ancestor. She is  associated with Dusk and Dawn, and is sometimes called the Mother Soul.  Azura's Star, also called the Twilight Star, appears briefly at dawn and  dusk low on the horizon below the constellation of the Steed. Azura is  associated with mystery and magic, fate and prophecy.