These books will increase the medium armor skill.
"It seems to me," said Garaz, thoughtfully looking into the depths of  his flin. "That all great ideas come from pure happenstance. Take for  instance, the story I told you last night about my cousin. If he hadn't  fallen off that horse, he never would have become one of the Empire's  foremost alchemists."
It was late one Middas night at the King's Ham, and the regulars were  always especially inclined toward philosophy.
"I disagree," replied Xiomara, firmly but politely. "Great ideas and  inventions are most often formed slowly over time by diligence and hard  work. If you'll recall my tale from last month, the young lady -- who I  assure you is based on a real person -- only recognized her one true  love after she had slept with practically everyone in Northpoint."
"I put it to you that neither is the case," said Hallgerd, pouring a  topper on his mug of greef. "The greatest inventions are created by  extraordinary need. Must I remind you of the story I told some time ago  about Arslic Oan and the invention of bonemold?"
"The problem with your theory is that your example is entirely  fictional," sniffed Xiomara.
"I don't believe I remember the story of Arslic Oan and the invention of  bonemold," frowned Garaz. "Are you sure you told us?"
"Well, this happened many, many, many years ago, when Vvardenfell was a  beauteous green land, when Dunmer were Chimer and Dwemer and Nord lived  together in relative peace when they weren't trying to kill one  another," Hallgerd relaxed in his chair, warming to his theme. "When the  sun and moons all hung in the sky together--"
"Lord, Mother, and Wizard!" grumbled Xiomara. "If I'm going to be forced  to hear your ridiculous story again, pray don't embellish and make it  any longer than it has to be."
This all happened in Vvardenfell quite some time ago (said Hallgerd,  ignoring Xiomara's interruption with admirable restraint) during an era  of a king you would never have heard of. Arslic Oan was one of this  king's nobles and very, very disagreeable fellow. Because of his  allegiance to the crown, the king had felt the need to grant him a  castle and land, but he didn't necessarily want him as a neighbor so the  land he granted was far from civilization. Right in an area of  Vvardenfell that is, even today, not quite civilized to this day. Arslic  Oan built a walled stronghold and settled down with his unhappy slaves  to enjoy a quiet if somewhat grim life.
It was not long before his stronghold's integrity was tested. A tribe of  cannibalistic Nords had been living in the valley for some time, mostly  dining on one another, but occasionally foraging what they liked to  call dark meat, the Dunmer.
Xiomara laughed with appreciation. "Marvelous! I don't remember that  from before. It's funny how you don't hear much about the Nords' rampant  cannibalism nowadays."
This was obviously, as I've said, quite some time ago (said Hallgerd,  glaring at part of his audience with civil malevolence) and things were  in many ways quite different. These cannibalistic Nords began attacking  Arslic Oan's slaves in the fields, and then slowly grew bolder, until  they held the very stronghold itself under siege. They were quite a  fearsome sight you can imagine: a horde of wild-eyed men and women with  dagger-like teeth filed to tear flesh, wielding massive clubs, cloaked  only in the skins of their victims.
Arslic Oan assumed that if he ignored them, they'd go away.
Unfortunately, the first thing that the Nords did was to poison the  stream that carried water into the walled stronghold. All the livestock  and most of the slaves died very quickly before this was discovered.  There was no hope of rescue, at least for several months when the king's  emissaries would come reluctantly to visit the disagreeable vassal. The  next closest source of water was on the other side of the hill, so  Arslic Oan sent three of his slaves with empty jugs to bring some back.
They were beaten with clubs and eaten before they were a few feet  outside the stronghold gates. The next group he sent through he gave  sticks to defend themselves. They made it a few feet farther, but were  also overwhelmed, beaten, and devoured. It was obvious that better  personal defensive was required. Arslic Oan went to talk to his armorer,  one of his few slaves with specific talents and duties.
"The slaves need armor if they're going to make it to the river and  back," he said. "Collect every scrap of steel and iron you can find,  every hinge, knife, ring, cup, everything that isn't needed to keep the  walls sturdy, smelt it, and give me the most and the best armor you can,  very, very quickly."
The armorer, whose name was Gorkith, was used to Arslic Oan's demands,  and knew that there could be no compromise on the quality and quantity  of the armor, or the speed at which he worked. He labored for thirty  hours without a break - and, recall, without any water to slake his  thirst as he struggled with the kiln and anvil - until finally, he had  six suits of mixed-metal armor.
Six slaves were chosen, clad in the armor, and sent with jars to collect  river water. At first, the mission progressed well. The Nord attacked  the armored slaves with their clubs, but they continued their march  forward, warding off the blows. Gradually, however, the slaves seemed to  be walking uncertainly, dazed by the endless barrage. Eventually, one  by one, they fell, the armor was peeled from their bodies, and they were  eaten.
"The slaves couldn't move quickly enough in that heavy armor you made,"  said Arslic Oan to Gorkith. "I need you to collect all the cadavers of  the poisoned livestock, strip their skin, and give me the most and the  best leather armor you can, very, very quickly."
Gorklith did as he was told, though it was a particularly repulsive task  given the rancid state of the livestock. Normally it takes quite a time  to treat and cure leather, so I understand, but Gorklith worked at it  tirelessly, and in a half a day he had twelve suits of leather armor.
Twelve slaves were chosen, clad in the armor, and sent with jars to  collect river water. They progressed, at first, much better than the  earlier expedition. Two fell almost immediately, but the others had some  luck out-maneuvering their assailants while deflecting an occasional  blow of the club. Several got to the river, three were able to fill up  their jars, and one fellow very nearly made it back to the stronghold  gates. Alas, he fell and was eaten. The Nords possessed a remarkably  healthy appetite.
"What we need before I completely run out of slaves," said Arslic Oan  thoughtfully to Gorkith. "Is an armor sturdier than leather but lighter  than metal."
The armorer had already considered that and taken stock of the materials  available. He had thought about doing something with stone or wood, but  there were practical problems with demolishing more of the stronghold.  The next most prevalent stuff present in the stronghold was skinned dead  bodies, hunks of muscle, fat, blood, and bone. For six hours, he toiled  relentlessly until he produced eighteen suits of bonemold, the first  ones ever created. Arslic Oan was somewhat dubious at the sight (and  smell) but he was very thirsty, and willing to sacrifice another  eighteen slaves if necessary.
"Might I suggest," Gorklith queried tremulously, "Having the slaves  practice moving about in the armor, here in the courtyard, before  sending them to face the Nords?"
Arslic Oan coolly allowed it, and for a few hours, the slaves wandered  about the stronghold courtyard in their suits of bonemold. They grew  used to the give of the joints, the rigidity of the backplate, the  weight pushed onto their shoulders and hips. They discovered how to  plant their feet slightly askew to keep their balance steady; how to  quickly turn, pivoting without falling down; how to break into a run and  stop quickly. By the time they were sent out of the castle gates, they  were easily very nearly almost amateurs in the use of their medium  weight armor.
Seventeen of them were killed and eaten, but one made it back with a jar  of water.
"It's perfect nonsense," said Xiomara. "But my point is still valid even  so. Like all great inventors, even in fiction, the armorer worked  diligently to create the bonemold."
"I think there was a good deal of happenstance as well," frowned Garaz.  "But it is an appalling story. I wish you hadn't told me."
"If you think that's appalling," grinned Hallgerd. "You should hear what  happened next."
"What do you mean the story gets more appalling?" Garaz was incredulous.  "How in Boethiah's name could it get more appalling?"
"It's a ruse," Xiomara scoffed, ordering two more mugs of greef and a  glass of flin for Garaz. "How much worse can a tale get which  prominently features cannibalism, abuse of slaves, and the regular  placement of rotting animal carcasses?"
"Don't you dare dare me," growled Hallgerd, annoyed by his listeners'  lack of appreciation of his prose styling. "Remind me where we were?"
"Arslic Oan is the owner of a stronghold under siege by savage,  cannibalistic Nords," said Xiomara, keeping a straight face. "After a  lot of deaths and several unsuccessful attempts to get water, he had his  armorer with the unlikely name of Gorkith outfit his slaves with the  first ever bonemold armor. One of them finally makes it back with some  water."
It was only one jarful of water (said Hallgerd, pulling back in his  chair and continuing the tale), and Arslic Oan drank most of it, passing  the remains to his dear armorer Gorkith and the last dribbles to the  few dozen slaves who still lived. It was hardly enough to sustain health  and well-being. Another expedition was necessary, but they had only one  suit of bonemold left, as there was only one survivor of the trip.
"One out of eighteen slaves made it through the gauntlet of Nords  wearing that marvelous bonemold armor of yours," said Arslic Oan to  Gorkith. "And one can only carry back enough water for one. Therefore,  mathematically, as we have, counting you and me, fifty-six remaining  people at the stronghold, we need armor for fifty-four. Since we already  have one, you only need to make fifty-three to make the total. That  way, three will make it back, with enough water for you and me and  whoever's in the best condition to partake. I don't know what we'll do  after that, but if we wait, we won't have enough slaves to fetch even a  couple days' worth of water."
"I understand," whimpered Gorkith. "But how am I going to make the  armor? I used all the livestock bones to make the first batch of  bonemold."
Arslic Oan gave an order which Gorkith fearfully complied with. In  eighteen hours -
"What do you mean 'Arslic Oan gave an order which Gorkith fearfully  complied with'?" asked Xiomara. "What was the order?"
"All will be clear," smiled Hallgerd. "I have to chose what to reveal  and what to conceal. Such is the way of the tale teller."
In eighteen hours, Gorkith had fifty-three suits of bonemail (said  Hallgerd, continuing, not really minding the interruption) prepared for  the slaves. Without prompting, he ordered the slaves to practice using  the armor, and even allowed them more training time than their  predecessors. They not only learned how to move and stop quickly in  bonemold, but how to adjust their peripheral vision to see a blow before  it came, and to sway to dodge, and where the sturdiest reinforcement  points on the arm were -- the center of the chest and the abdomen -- and  how to position themselves to take blows there, against their natural  instincts. The slaves even had time for a mock battle before being sent  out among the cannibals.
The slaves handled themselves admirably. Very few, just fifteen slaves,  were killed and eaten out right. Only ten were killed and eaten when  they reached the river. That was when things did not go according to  Arslic Oan's plans. Twenty-one slaves with jars of water took off for  the hills. Only eight returned to the castle, largely because they were  blocked by the cannibal Nords. It was a larger percentage than he had  anticipated surviving, but Arslic Oan felt righteous indignation at the  paucity of loyalty.
"Are you absolutely certain you wouldn't rather flee?" he hollered from  the battlements.
Finally, he allowed the survivors in. Three had been killed waiting for  the gate to open. Two more died almost upon stepping into the courtyard.  One was delirious, walking around in circles, laughing and dancing  before suddenly collapsing. That meant five jars of water for four  people, the two surviving slaves, Arslic Oan, and Gorkith. As the lord  of the manor, Arslic Oan took the extra jar, but he was democratic with  the others.
"You're quite correct," frowned Garaz. "This story is getting more and  more appalling."
"Just wait," smiled Hallgerd.
The next morning (Hallgerd continued) Arslic Oan awoke to a perfectly  still and quiet stronghold. There was no murmuring in the corridors, no  sound of hard labor in the courtyard. He dressed and surveyed the scene.  It appeared that the fortress was utterly deserted. Arslic Oan walked  down to the armorer's quarters, but the door was locked.
"Open up," said Arslic Oan, patiently. "We need to speak. Thirty out of  fifty-four slaves successfully made it to the river and gathered water.  Admittedly, some then fled, and a couple didn't survive because I needed  to correct their fickleness, but mathematically, that's a fifty-five  percent survival rate. If you and I and the two remaining slaves made  the next run to the river, we two should survive."
"Zilian and Gelo left last night with their armor," cried Gorklith  through the door.
"Who are Zilian and Gelo?"
"The two remaining slaves! They don't remain anymore!"
"Well, that's vexing," said Arslic Oan. "Still we must continue on.  Mathematically--"
"I heard something last night," whimpered Gorklith in a funny voice.  "Like footsteps, only different, and they were moving through the walls.  And there were voices too. They sounded strange, like they couldn't  move their jaws very well, but I knew one."
Arslic Oan sighed, humoring his poor armorer: "And who was it?"
"Ponik."
"And who is Ponik?"
"One of the slaves that died when the Nords poisoned our water. One of  the many, many slaves that died, and we made use of. He was always a  nice, uncomplaining fellow, that's why I noticed his voice above all the  others," Gorklith began to sob. "I understood what he was saying."
"Which was what?" asked Arslic Oan with a sigh.
"'Give me back my bones!'" Gorklith's voice shrieked. There was silence  for a moment, and then more hysterical sobbing.
"I saw that coming," laughed Xiomara.
There was nothing more to be done with the armorer for the time being  (said Hallgerd, a trifle annoyed at the regular interruptions), so  Arslic Oan stripped one of the dead slaves of his suit of bonemold and  put it on. He practiced in the courtyard, impressing himself with his  natural comfortably with medium weight armor. For hours, he boxed,  feinted, dodged, sprinted, skipped, jumped, and generally cavorted  about. When he felt tired, he retired to the shade and took a nap.
The sound of the king's trumpet woke him with a start. Night had fallen,  and for a moment, he thought he had been dreaming. Then the alarum  sounded again, far in the distance, but clear. Arslic Oan leapt to his  feet and ran to the ramparts. Several miles away, he could see the  emissaries and their vast and well-armed escort approach. They were  there early! The cannibal Nords below looked at one another with  consternation. Savages they might be, but they knew when a superior  force was approaching.
Arslic Oan joyously dashed down the stairs to Gorklith's chamber. The  door was still locked. He beat on it, cajoling, demanding, threatening.  Finally, he found a key, one of the few scraps of metal that had not  been smelted days before.
Gorklith appeared to be sleeping, but as Arslic Oan approached, he  noticed that the armorer's mouth and eyes were wide open and his arms  were folded unnaturally behind his back. On closer inspection, the  armorer was obviously dead. What was more, his face and whole body were  sunken, like an empty pig's bladder.
Something moved through the walls, like a footfall only... squishy.  Arslic Oan expertly and gracefully turned to face it, completely in  balance.
At first, it seemed like nothing more than a bubble expanding through  one of the cracks in the stone. As more of the flesh-colored gelatinous  matter emerged, it more clearly resembled part of a face. A flaccid,  almost shapeless face with a low brow and a slack, toothless jaw. The  rest of the body oozed out of the crack, a soft bag of muscle and blood.  Behind Arslic Oan and to the side, there was more movement, more slaves  welling up through the cracks in the stone. They were all around him,  reaching out.
"Give us," moaned Ponik, his tongue rolling about his hanging jaw. "Give  us back our bones."
Arslic Oan began to rip off his bonemold, throwing it to the floor. A  hundred figures, more, pooled into the small chamber.
"That's not enough."
The cannibals had cleared away by the time the king's emissaries arrived  at Arslic Oan's gates. They had not been looking forward to this visit.  It was best, they though philosophically, to begin with the worst of  the king's noblemen, so to end their trip well. They sounded the alarum  once again, but the gates did not open. There was no sound from Arslic  Oan's stronghold.
It took a few hours to gain access. If the emissaries had not brought a  professional acrobat with them for entertainment, it might have taken  longer. The place seemed to be abandoned. They searched every room,  until finally they came to the armorer's.
There they found the master of the manor, folded neatly, legs behind his  head, arms behind the legs, like a fine gown. Not a bone in his body.
"The first part of your story was complete nonsense," cried Xiomara.  "But now it doesn't hold true on any level. How could bonemold be made  again if the armorer who invented it died before he could tell anyone  how he did it?"
"I said that this was the first time it was created, not the first time  people learned the craft."
"And when did someone first teach someone else the craft?" asked Garaz.
"That, my friends," replied Hallgerd with a sinister smile. "Is a tale  for another night."