[This broadsheet is a newsletter copied on cheap paper, featuring  sensational events in the city of Mournhold. One article describes a  list of individuals who died under suspicious circumstances when their  interests conflicted with those of 'a former prince of the West'. The  reference is clearly King Helseth, King of Morrowind, formerly Prince  Helseth of the kingdom of Wayrest in the province of High Rock.]
"A poet can have no higher purpose than to tell the truth about the  human condition." -- Lord Vivec
I have a little list. They never would be missed.
Appearing at the top -- three names... Anhar, Khajiit male -- Martyrius  Arruntius, Imperial male -- Jusole Asciele, Breton male. What do these  three names have in common?
All three at one time or another represented an inconvenience to a  Western noble prince named Helseth.
Anhar was an agent for Eastern ebony merchants. There was an unfortunate  scandal concerning improper contracts offered to Helseth as  compensation for his assistance in obtaining ebony import remits from  the Imperial Board of Census and Excise. Luckily for Prince Helseth,  this scandal blew over when no one could be found to testify. Is it just  a coincidence that Anhar's health went into a steep decline, just as he  was to testify before the Imperial magistrates? He died a natural  death, according to the Imperial coroners. Convenient and timely,  perhaps, but natural.
Martyrius Arruntius was a city alderman of Wayrest. Prince Helseth's  liaison with the alderman's married daughter was potentially  embarrassing to the Prince -- especially when Martyrius Arruntius  forcefully pressed his suit for 'predatory adultery' in Wayrest's  courts. Many thought it strange that Martyrius Arruntius should suddenly  fall ill and die of 'exhaustion' on the eve of the trial. The suit was  settled out of court, and charges dismissed. The Imperial coroners ruled  that Martyrius Arruntius had died a natural death. Convenient and  timely, admittedly, but natural.
Jusole Asciele was a diplomatic attache at the High Rock embassy in  Wayrest. Widely rumored to be an intelligence officer, Jusole Asciele  was often seen at court, taking a great interest in the affairs of Queen  Barenziah and her family. It is said that Wayrest can be a beastly  uncomfortable place in high summer. Perhaps the Breton's constitution  was ill-suited to the relentless heat and pestilential swarms of the  southern Iliac. Jusole Asciele took suddenly ill one evening, and within  three days he was dead. Once again, Imperial coroners ruled that Jusole  Asciele had died a natural death. Convenient and timely, yes, but  natural.
And these, The Common Tongue notes significantly, are only the 'A's on  the list.
Some have quietly suggested that Prince Helseth was the most  accomplished and subtle poisoner in the West. But The Common Tongue has  never seen a single scrap of evidence that would prove such an  indictment. [Admittedly, the absence of such proof could count as  qualifying towards the title of a 'most accomplished and subtle  poisoner'.]
And, further, The Common Tongue does not wish to suggest that King  Helseth is a poisoner, or that the recent death of King Athyn Llethan's  was a poisoning, and not a natural death. The Common Tongue has never  seen a single scrap of evidence that would prove such an indictment. And  the Imperial coroners have ruled that Athyn Llethan died a natural  death.