Nothing is more revolting to Dunmer feeling than the sorry spectacle of  another Dunmer enslaved by that derivative moon-sugar known as 'skooma.'  And nothing is less appetising than listening to the pathetic tales of  humiliation and degradation associated with a victim of this addictive  drug.
Why, then, do I force myself upon you with this extended and detailed  account of my sins and sorrows?
Because I hope that by telling my tale, the hope of redemption from this  sorry state shall be more widely known. And because I hope that others  who have also fallen into the sorry state of skooma addiction may  therefore hear of my story, of how I fell into despair, and how I once  again found myself and freed myself from my own self-imposed chains.
Because it is widely known to all Khajiit, who may be expected to know,  that there is no cure for addiction to skooma, that once a slave to  skooma, always a slave to skooma. Because this is widely known, it is  taken to be true. But it is not true, and I am living proof.
There is no miracle cure. There is no potion to be taken. There is no  magical incantation which frees you from the thrill of skooma running  through your blood.
But it is through the understanding of that thrill, and the acceptance  of the lust within oneself for that thrill, and the casting aside of the  shame that the thrillseeker feels when he cannot set aside what becomes  in the end his only comfort and pleasure, it is through this knowledge  and understanding that the victim comes to the place where choices may  be made, where despair and hope may be separated.
In short, only knowledge and acceptance can deliver into the slave's  hands the key that opens his shackles and sets him free.
[The narrative of Tilse Sendas' tale carries the reader through the  stages of early infatuation, ecstatic obsession, and profound  degradation of her addiction, and in the course of the story she subtly  enables the reader to discover that the hopelessness of the addict comes  from the addict's own unconscious assumption that only a helpless and  foolish person could become addicted to skooma, and that, consequently,  no such helpless and foolish person could ever achieve the admittedly  difficult task of renouncing, once tasted, the exquisite delights of the  skooma. Tilse Sendas shows that once the addict overcomes the burden of  her own self-despising, that there is the possibility of redemption.  And, against all of society's dearly held beliefs, she says that it is  not altogether clear that the addict SHOULD renounce the sugar, but that  it is only one of the choices that the skooma addict must make. Tilse  Sendas' casual proposition that skooma addiction is not necessarily a  sign of moral and personal weakness is essential to her thesis that a  cure is possible, but it has not endeared her or her book to the upright  and conservative elements of Dunmer society.]