[The following documents were prepared by Temple scholars and agents of  the Inquisition for Lord Vivec.]
From interrogation of captured Sleepers and other Sixth House cultists,  from study of manuscripts written by cultists and victims of  dream-induced mania, from interviews with Lord Vivec concerning  historical campaigns against Red Mountain, and from broad conjectures  and inferences made upon these materials, this is our best estimate of  Dagoth Ur's motivations and objectives in this most recent phase of his  war upon Morrowind.
 
Phase 1:
Secure Red Mountain against Tribunal intruders. Deny  Tribunal access to the Heart, weakening the Temple while securing Red  Mountain for the creation of Akulakhan. Keep the construction of Second  Numidium a secret.
Phase 2:
Create passive servants in ever-widening circles around Red  Mountain by broadcasting compulsions couched in dream imagery to  susceptible subjects in their sleep. Establish a major operational base  at Kogoruhn for further operations in the ash wastes. Establish smaller  bases near small port villages and in lower-class waterfront districts  in Vivec. Infiltrate and subvert smuggling syndicates. Recruit willing  followers from disaffected populations, including the underworld, the  poor, and rabid anti-Imperial activists.
Phase 3:
Expand from smaller bases to other towns and villages, and  recruit and indoctrinate subjects made susceptible by dream sendings.  Occupy abandoned towers and ruins, and train corrupted cultists as  raiders and irregular troops. Identify, discredit, and decimate possible  sources of political resistance.
Phase 4:
Use assassination and terror to weaken, distract, and  disrupt the Legions and the Imperial bureaucracy, along with their  Hlaalu sympathizers. Inspire popular uprisings of the native poor  against the foreign rich and powerful. Summon Sleepers and Dreamers to  Dagoth Ur to work on Second Numidium.
Dagoth Ur thinks on a large time scale -- for the most part, in the  outside-of-time scale of the divine consciousness. He thinks that only  obstacles of mythic scale are worth consideration. He believes he is  fated to rule Morrowind, to free Morrowind of the Empire, and to become  the new hard-loving Father of Morrowind. Given that perspective, the  only opposing forces Dagoth Ur worries about are the Tribunal, the  Daedra, the Emperor, and the Incarnate.
With the Tribunal's loss of Sunder and Keening, and with the diminishing  resources of Vivec, Almalexia, and Sotha Sil, Dagoth Ur believes he has  permanently gained a decisive strategic advantage. On a mortal  timescale, the battle may last for centuries, but the outcome is not in  doubt. And Akulakhan may be a device for dramatically reducing the time  scale for a decisive victory.
The myth of dynamic invincibility of the Emperor and the Empire has long  been an unquantifiable and intimidating threat, but recent rumors of  unrest in Cyrodiil, of the Emperor's failing health, and the unsettled  question of the succession have diminished the scale of that threat.  Nonetheless, the revelation that the Nerevarine is a pawn of Imperial  intelligence, hand-picked and sent to Morrowind by the Emperor himself,  may cause Dagoth Ur considerable anxiety.
The Daedra represent no coherent obstacle to Dagoth Ur. Nonetheless,  their personal abilities and their influence upon their fanatic  followers is considerable, their motives and actions obscure, and Dagoth  Ur remains concerned about them.
The Incarnate represents Saint Nerevar, a mythic force that has  previously defeated Dagoth Ur, and Dagoth Ur is obsessed with this  threat. At the same time, Dagoth Ur knew Nerevar personally, knew that  he was a mortal man with faults and weaknesses. Dagoth Ur may have some  hope of seducing or negotiating with Nerevar's reincarnation. Further,  when Nerevar and the Tribunal defeated Dagoth Ur, they were strong and  allied; now the Nerevarine and the Tribunal are weak, opposed, and  divided. Therefore, though the Nerevarine and the Tribunal represent the  most serious threat to Dagoth Ur's plans, he still has good reason to  believe that this time he will prevail.
[Much of the following timescale is based on inference from incomplete  information.]
before 2E 882: Dagoth Ur and his kin lie dreaming beneath the sills of  Red Mountain.
2E 882: Dagoth Ur and his ash vampires awake refreshed and emerge from  lower Red Mountain into the Heart Chamber. Dagoth Ur ritually binds  himself and his brethren as heartwights in a ritual of his own devising.  First stages of construction of Second Numidium [conceived during the  Long Sleep] are begun by heartwights and atronach constructs in a  chamber near the Heart of Lorkhan. Keeping the Second Numidium project a  secret from the Tribunal is a high priority.
2E 882: The Tribunal arrive at Red Mountain for their annual ritual  bathing in the heart's power. Dagoth Ur and ash vampires ambush the  Tribunal. The Tribunes are driven away, and prevented from restoring  themselves with Kagrenac's tools at the Heart of Lorkhan.
2E 882-3E 417: Intermittent Tribunal campaigns assault Red Mountain. The  Tribunal and supporting forces seek to force access to the Heart  Chamber, but are repeatedly driven back. Dagoth Ur recruits Sleepers and  Dreamers through dream sendings. Cultists are recruited through dream  compulsion. Weaker cultists become corprus beasts; stronger cultists  advance through stages towards the powers of the Ascended Sleepers.
3E 400: Kogoruhn reoccupied by Dagoth Uthol and fortified as an advance  base for Sixth House operations. Blight storms more frequent and  widespread. Soul sickness spreads in regions close to Red Mountain.
3E 410: Sixth House bases founded near Gnaar Mok and in waterfront areas  of Vivec. Sixth House operatives exploit smuggler organizations and  communications to spread their influence among victims unbalanced by  Dagoth Ur's dream sendings.
3E 415: Small cells of Sixth House cultists in every town in  Vvardenfell. Larger Sixth House operations are concealed in remote  dungeons where creatures are bred and cultists are trained for the  coming struggle.
3E 417: Almalexia and Sotha Sil lose the artifacts Keening and Sunder to  Dagoth Odros and Vemyn. Vivec rescues Almalexia and Sotha Sil, but  failing to recover Keening and Sunder, the Tribunal retreat from Red  Mountain in disorder. Surviving Buoyant Armiger companions know the  Tribunal was forced to retreat, but do not know how serious a reversal  the Tribunal has suffered. The Three Tribunes return to their respective  capitals and continue to perform their ritual functions. The Tribunes  continue to grow weaker without access to the Heart, and because of  resources required to support the Ghostfence. The inner circle of the  Temple priesthood has begun to suspect the Tribunes have suffered  seriously from wounds and demoralization in the wake of reverses at Red  Mountain, but do not recognize the scale of the problem.
3E 426-427: Campaign of Sixth House assassinations of prominent Imperial  citizens and Hlaalu Imperial sympathizers. Sudden increase in number  and seriousness of attacks by cultists and victims deranged by soul  sickness.
 