At last! After these many years of searching, I'm sure I've located the  proper caverns. The Crystals are just as the stories describe;  "...wrapped in crystalline embrace, the silver pierced brow of the  Traitors shall ward his sleep." This must be the place! This must be  Mordrin Hanin's tomb!
Badama and I have established quarters here. No one shall steal my  discovery. To imagine what treasures are hidden within this stone. Those  Guild fools! Mocking my studies. The Powers I shall unleash upon their  miserable skins. Tomorrow we will summon workers to begin excavation.
The Summoning was successful, although Badama lacks concentration. We  nearly had a Storm Atronach, but her poor skills allowed it to escape.  We shall make do with vermin. To think of the earth we could have riven  with the Atronach. Now we are forced to watch the Scamps scrape the  surface with picks and shovels. Hideous, miserable creatures.
Otherworldly, vermin, bastards! Fodder for my cauldron! Scamps are the  most untrue of servants. I should enlist the efforts of the Giant Rats  of the wilderness and have greater success. Whining, thieving, lazy and  treacherous...Scamps! One attempted to flee, stealing a number of  potions in his flight. I made short work of him. Perhaps the others will  think deeply before following his path. Unfortunately, I was unable to  locate one of my best Potions of Rising Force.
Success! I discovered the traces of worked stone, which when inspected  closely were obviously of Daedric workmanship. After great effort and  much moving of earth and stone, the remaining blockage fell away with a  great splash into a pool of loathsome water. The foul and noisome air  which escaped nearly choked me. The Scamps broke into a great frenzy,  trying to hurl themselves through the opening, shrieking with either  terror or joy. The creatures are clearly insane.
I've been forced to erect a gate at the opening. The Scamps still  attempt to escape into its maw. I've placed Badama as sentry to monitor  the worthless creatures. Perhaps they'll tear her to pieces in her  sleep. No, I still require her talents in the upcoming search.
The baleful effects of this place are telling on me. I've only just  managed to distill some potions to aid us in our endeavor. Soon though,  we will enter the chambers and finally realize a life's ambition. Still,  though we find the tomb, it may be for naught if we cannot locate the  "Key Guardian". Sometimes I hear voices in my dreams calling on  Mordins's name. Is it terror or adulation?