I have been asked to write this guidebook for outsiders who are  unfamiliar with the Tribunal Temple, and interested in joining.
All those who are earnest, and who are willing to submit to the wisdom  of Blessed Almsivi, Triune Grace, the saints, and the priests, are  welcome to the Fellowship of the Tribunal Temple. The Temple is the  religion of Morrowind and Dunmer people, and has been for generation  upon generation. With guidance and counsel of Almalexia, Vivec, and  Sotha Sil, the Anticipations, and all the hosts of saints of ancestors,  the Temple guards and protects the lands and peoples of Morrowind.
Those who follow the Tribunal must have the Personality to lead others  and the Willpower to resist the world's temptations. When violence is  needful, we fight with staves and hammers, armored only in our faith. We  study Restoration and Alchemy to heal the people, and Mysticism to  learn more of the divine. We must also study Conjuration to speak with  the spirits of our ancestors and protect against those who traffic with  the Four Corners.
Those interested in joining the Tribunal Temple should speak to priests  at the temples in Ald'ruhn, Balmora, Molag Mar, and Ghostgate, or with  priests at the High Fane in the Temple Compound in Vivec.
The Temple believes that Almalexia, Vivec, and Sotha Sil were mortal  guardians of Morrowind who walked the earth, defeated the Dunmer's  greatest enemies, the Nords and the Dwarves, and achieved divine  substance through superhuman discipline and virtue and supernatural  wisdom and insight. Like loving ancestors, they guard and counsel their  followers. Like stern parents, they punish sin and error. Like generous  relatives, they share their bounty among the greatest and least,  according to their needs.
Your fourfold duties are to: Faith, Family, Masters, and all that is  good. Perform holy quests and bring luster to the Temple. Never  transgress against your brothers or sisters, and never dishonor your  house or your ancestors. Serve and protect the poor and weak, and honor  your elders and clan.
For those who would be wise, these sacred books will be of interest.
Saryoni's  Sermons
Learn from the teachings of Vivec, and from the Archcanon's sermons on  the Seven Graces.
Lives  of the Saints
Members of the Temple who wish to be virtuous will model their lives on  the lives of the saints.
The  Pilgrim's Path
The path to wisdom and self-knowledge is through pilgrimage. Those who  would rise in the ranks of the faithful may retrace the steps of the  Lords and Saints, and gain blessings and learn virtue by suffering and  overcoming hardships.
The  Consolations of Prayer
Learn what bounties and blessing might be gained by prayer at the  shrines found in temples, and in places of pilgrimage, and in the tombs  of our ancestors.