I am a councilor of House Hlaalu and chose to write this short guide for  those who seek to understand us or join us. House Hlaalu is the most  open and modern of the Great Houses. We are the only Great House who has  embraced the irresistible tides of Imperial law and custom. And thus we  have profited by the Empire's new policies, rising from obscurity as  the Greatest of the Houses.
In the great wind of progress, tradition cannot stand.
The Redoran may surpass us on the field of battle, but when the dust  clears, they will find themselves indebted to us. The Telvanni may know  many arcane secrets, but they fight among themselves more than against  each other, and they cannot adapt to the ways of the Empire. Ancient and  powerful though a Telvanni wizard may be, no individual can withstand  the march of history. The Indoril are loved by the people for their  gifts and donations, but when the money runs dry, will the people  remember? The Dres know how to make money, but they have not learned how  not to make enemies.
Grasp fortune by the forelocks. When you see your chances, seize them.
When you see a chance to turn a profit, take it. But do not follow money  blindly. There is value in reputation, more than many young Hlaalu  realize. This value must be carefully balanced against the more tangible  coins in any deal. Theft and murder are bad for business. You can steal  from someone, but will he trade with you after that? You can't bargain  with a dead man.
There are many ways to do business.
In House Hlaalu you must be fast and agile. You must be able to keep up  with business and with the times. You must be able to speak quickly and  convincingly. You must be able to trade with the best of merchants and  make a profit. You must learn to protect your own property by securing  it with hidden chests, locks, and even traps. And when confrontation is  unavoidable, it is best to fight quickly in comfortable, light armors  with short blades, or to fight from a distance with a marksman's  weapons.
Then, reader, would you seize this opportunity to join House Hlaalu?  Would you have yourself be counted among the victors in the race for  success? Then submit yourself for examination at the Balmora Council  Manor. If you have the skills, you will be welcome. And if you have the  will, you may serve House Hlaalu, and advance in the ranks, for above  all things, House Hlaalu prizes initiative and ambition.