
Ald'ruhn is the district seat of House Redoran, and one of the largest  settlements on Vvardenfell. The three principal districts are Ald'ruhn  town, Ald'ruhn-under-Skar, and Buckmoth Fort.
Ald'ruhn town is a large settlement in the Redoran village style, built  of local materials, with organic curves and undecorated exteriors  inspired by the landscape and by the shells of giant native insects.  Most guildhalls, cornerclubs, and merchants are sited in the southwest  corner of town, convenient to West Gate and the strider port, while the  Temple is located on high ground to the east, and surrounded by a  residential section.
Ald'ruhn-under-Skar is the most distinctive architectural feature of  Ald'ruhn -- a manor and council district sheltered beneath the shell of  an ancient extinct giant crab. The large carapace encloses a central  dome, from which radiate the entrances to the Redoran Council chambers,  the manors of the Redoran councilors, and shops of a few upscale  merchants.
Buckmoth Fort is the Imperial legion garrison for the district. The  strong walls and towers of this Western fortress lies a short distance  to the south of Ald'ruhn town, through South Gate behind the Mages  Guild.
House Redoran services are in the Council House and Councilor's Manors  of Ald'ruhn-Under-Skar. The Ald'ruhn Temple on the east side of town  provides service for Temple worshipers. Buckmoth Fort offers services to  the Imperial Legion and devotees of the Imperial cult, including an  Imperial cult altar. The guildhalls of the Fighters Guild and Mages  Guild are near the South Gate. Pricy but high-quality clothier,  alchemist, and enchanter shops are under Skar as well. Commodities at  reasonable prices, but with smaller selections, are available from the  smith, clothier, trader, pawnbroker, and bookseller near the entrance to  Ald'ruhn-Under-Skar. The Ald Skar Inn and the Council Club cornerclub  are found to the west, near West Gate and the silt strider port. The Rat  in the Pot cornerclub is in south Ald'ruhn, near the guildhalls.
All six Redoran councilors, Brara Morvayn, Hlaren Ramoran, Athyn  Sarethi, Garisa Llethri, Miner Arobar, and Bolvyn Venim, have manor  residences in Ald'ruhn-Under-Skar. Edwinna Elbert is the Mages Guild  steward, and Percius Mercius has recently become the Fighters Guild  steward. Old Methal Seran is an eminent Temple priest and scholar. Raesa  Pullia is commandant of Buckmoth Fort, but Imsin the Dreamer is the  chapter steward. The Redguard Hean is priest of the Imperial cult. Goren  Andarysis the guild steward of the Morag Tong, whose guildhall is found  in Ald'ruhn-Under-Skar.
Roads lead northwest to Maar Gan and Gnisis villages and by a circuitous  western route to Caldera, Balmora, and points south. The road to  Balmora swings northwest to avoid the barren wastes, and curves around  towards the west until it heads south again to Caldera. Between Ald'ruhn  and Caldera are many sidepaths; watch for signposts, or you'll get  lost. The silt strider port is along the western town wall, north of  West Gate. Silt strider service goes from Ald'ruhn to Balmora, Gnisis,  Khuul, or Maar Gan.. Guild guides at the Mages Guild teleport you to  Balmora, Vivec, Caldera, and Sadrith Mora for a modest fee. Gnaar Mok is  a LONG and exceptionally unpleasant walk west to the coast and then  south; there are no trails or marked routes. Casual travelers  ill-equipped for the attacks of wild beasts and brigands should keep to  the roads and travel services.