
Morrowind is the northeastmost province of the Tamrielic Empire, bounded  on the north and east by the Sea of Ghosts, on the west by Skyrim, on  the southwest by Cyrodiil (also known as the Imperial Province), and on  the south by Black Marsh (also known as Argonia). Vvardenfell District  encompasses Vvardefell Island, a great land mass dominated by the giant  volcano Red Mountain and cut off from mainland Morrowind by the  surrounding Inner Sea.
Only recently open to settlement and trade, most of the island's  population is confined to the relatively hospitable west and southwest  coast, centered on the ancient city of Vivec and the old Great House  district centers at Balmora, Ald'ruhn, and Sadrith Mora. The rest of the  island is covered by hostile desert wastes, arid grasslands, and  volcanic badlands, and thinly populated by the nomadic Ashlander tribes.
Vvardenfell has nine basic geographic regions, each with their own  distinctive plants and terrain features. Scholars have based their  classifications on the different types of land described by the native  Ashlanders, so the designations are recognized by most local traders,  travelers, and adventurers. These geographic regions are called: the  Ascadian Isles, the Ashlands, Azura's Coast, the Bitter Coast, the  Grazelands, Molag Amur, Red Mountain, the West Gash, and Sheogorad.
The Ascadian Isles is a region of lush, green, well-watered southern  lowlands where most of Vvardenfell's agriculture is found. The area  includes Pelagiad, Suran, Vivec City, and Ald Sotha along with the  inland lakes and waterways of the Ascadian Isles proper. The urban areas  of Vivec and Ebonheart of the southern coast are densely populated; the  inland Ascadian Isles are dotted with small farms and large  plantations. The climate is temperate and comfortable, with moderate  rainfall.
Ebonheart is the seat of the Imperial government for Vvardenfell  district, and a busy center of maritime trade. Castle Ebonheart is the  home of Duke Vedam Dren, the district's ruler and Emperor's  representative. Also located at Castle Ebonheart are the Vvardenfell  District Council chambers and the Hawk Moth Legion garrison. The  officers, docks, and warehouses of the East Empire Company are also  found in Ebonheart.
Vivec City is the largest settlement on Vvardenfell, and one of the  largest cities in the East. Each of the great cantons is the size of a  complete town. The High Fane and the palace of Vivec are visited by  hundreds of tourists and pilgrims daily. Citizens flock to the Arena for  entertainments and war games. Outlanders mostly confine themselves to  the Foreign Canton, while natives live, work, and shop in the Great  House compounds and residential cantons.
Ald Sotha is a splendid Daedric ruin within sight of Vivec City. Though  exotic and picturesque, it is a dangerous site, haunted by old magics,  dark cultists, and their Daedric summonings, and not recommended for  sightseers.
Suran is an agricultural village in the northeastern corner of the  fertile Ascadian Isles region. Two popular pilgrimage sites are nearby  -- the Fields of Kummu and the Shrine of Molag Bal.
Pelagiad is a newly chartered Imperial village between Balmora and Vivec  City on the western edge of the Ascadian Isles region. The village is  right outside the Imperial Legion garrison at Fort Pelagiad. The houses  and shops are built in the Western Imperial style, and Pelagiad looks  more like a village in the western Empire than a Morrowind settlement.
The Ashlands are the dry, inhospitable wastelands surrounding the lower  slopes of Red Mountain. The Ashlands extend to the Sea of Ghosts in the  north, and elsewhere form a wide margin between the blighted Red  Mountain region and other geographic regions. The village of Maar Gan is  the only sizable permanent Ashlands settlement; Ald'ruhn, the district  seat of House Redoran, is on the margin of the region. Ashlanders hunt  for game here, and their herds find sparse grazing. It rains rarely, and  suffers frequent ash storms.
Maar Gan is a small isolated village in a remote region north of  Ald'ruhn. The Maar Gan shrine is an important Temple pilgrimage site.
The Ashlander Urshilaku tribe has a permanent settlement at Urshilaku  camp in the Ashlands region north of Maar Gan village.
The rugged coast and islands of northern and eastern Vvardenfell are  called Azura's Coast. The region is rocky, infertile, and largely  uninhabited, except for the outpost at Molag Mar, the Telvanni  settlements at Sadrith Mora, the wizard towers at Tel Aruhn, Tel Mora,  and Tel Branora, and Ahemmusa camp and the remote fishing villages of  Ald Redaynia and Dagon Fel on the north coast. There are no roads; most  travel is by boat. Despite the rocky terrain, a variety of plants thrive  on the regular rainfall.
Sadrith Mora is the district seat of House Telvanni, and home of the  Telvanni Council, though only one Telvanni councilor actually lives in  Sadrith Mora. Sadrith Mora is an island settlement, and accessible only  by sea and teleportation. The town is large, with many services, but it  is open only to Telvanni retainers; outsiders must confine themselves to  the Gateway Inn.
Tel Branora is the tower and seat of the eccentric Telvanni wizard named  Mistress Therana. The tower and its tiny village are located on a rocky  promontory at the southeasternmost tip of Azura's Coast.
Tel Fyr is the Telvanni tower of Sorcerer-Lord Divayth Fyr. Beneath the  tower is the Corprusarium, a refuge-prison where the deranged, distorted  victims of the deadly corprus disease are housed and tended.
Tel Aruhn is the Telvanni tower of Archmagister Gothren, Telvanni  Sorcerer-Lord and head of the Telvanni Council. The associated  settlement is a sizable village, and the site of the Festival Slave  Market, the largest slave market on Vvardenfell.
Tel Mora is the Telvanni tower of Mistress Dratha, an ancient wizard of  the Telvanni Council. The small settlement includes a few craftsfolk and  a tradehouse.
Tel Vos is the tower of Telvanni wizard and council member Master Aryon.  Tel Vos is a peculiar blend of Telvanni and Western architectural  styles, and is close to Vos village.
Bal Fell is the "City of Stone," an ancient First Era ruin in the  southeastern islands and promontories of Azura's Coast. The site has a  nasty reputation, and several Telvanni wizards currently have competing  camps of hirelings and adventurers exploring and looting there. Legend  says that Bal Fell was built on the site of an ancient Daedric worship  center.
The Ashlander Ahemmusa tribe has a permanent settlement at Ahemmusa camp  on a rocky promontory at the northeastern tip of the Vvardenfell  mainland in the Azura's Coast region.
The western coast of Vvardenfell from Seyda Neen north to Gnaar Mok is  called the Bitter Coast. The salt marshes and humid swamps of this  region are uninhabited, with the only settlements found at the good  harbors of Gnaar Mok, Hla Oad, and Seyda Neen. Also called the  Smuggler's Coast, the region's secluded coves and islands provide refuge  for criminal trade, and the frequent rain and fog hides small boats  from Excise cutters.
The piercing light of the Grand Pharos at the mouth of the harbor of the  port village of Seyda Neen is a beacon to mariners throughout the Inner  Sea. Most visitors from the Empire make landfall at the port of Seyda  Neen, where they are processed by the Imperial Census and Excise  Commission agents of the Coastguard station. The Coastguard cutters  docked here control smuggling and piracy on the Inner Sea.
Hla Oad is a tiny isolated fishing village on western Vvardenfell in the  Bitter Coast region. A rough track along the River Odai connects Hla  Oad with the town of Balmora.
Gnaar Mok is a tiny island fishing village in the Bitter Coast region of  western Vvardenfell.
The regular rain and dark soils of the Grazelands produce the rich  grazing for Ashlander herds that give the region its name. The region  lies in the northeast of Vvardenfell, sandwiched between the Ashlands  and Azura's Coast. Permanent settlements include Vos village and the  towers of Tel Vos and Tel Fyr. The Ashlanders of Zainab camp move their  herds across the plains in search of fresh grazing. There are no roads  or tracks, but travel is easy across the open plains.
The Ashlander Zainab tribe has a permanent settlement at Zainab camp,  near the village of Vos in the Grazelands region.
Located inland in the southeast of Vvardenfell, Molag Amur is an  uninhabited wasteland of rocky hills, steep-sided ravines, lava pools,  and barren ash pavements. Pathfinding and travel is extremely difficult  in this trackless wilderness, and is complicated by frequent ash storms.  The Ashlanders of Erabenimsun camp hunt game here, but few others  venture into this region. The worst part of Molag Amur, called the Great  Scathes, is considered impassible even by the Ashlanders.
The outpost at Molag Mar is a fortified stronghold on the southeastern  edge of the desolate Molag Amur region. Pilgrims bound for the nearby  pilgrimage sites at Mount Assarnibibi and Mount Kand take refuge at the  outpost's hostels, comforted by the garrison of Redoran and Buoyant  Armiger crusaders stationed at the stronghold.
The Ashlander Erabenimsun tribe has a permanent settlement at  Erabenimsun camp, an isolated hut settlement in the middle of the  desolate Molag Amur region.
The dominant feature of Vvardenfell, Red Mountain, is a vast volcano in  the center of Vvardenfell. The outer slopes are steep and rugged, and  the crater is deep and dotted with surface lava. The Ghostfence, a  magical barrier which blocks travel as well as seals in the harmful,  disease-laden weather called 'blight,' rings the volcano's outer slopes,  and is broken only at Ghostgate. Within the Ghostfence, rain never  falls and the sun never shines; the only weather is the red and deadly  ash-blight.
Ghostgate is the gate citadel of the Ghostfence Ordinator and Buoyant  Armiger garrisons. Ghostgate sits astride the only gap through which the  monstrous hosts of Dagoth Ur might emerge from Red Mountain to threaten  the rest of Morrowind. The Ghostfence itself is a colossal magical  artifact that completely encircles Red Mountain and prevents the Blight  from spilling its corruption across the rest of Vvardenfell.
The western highlands of Vvardefell are called the West Gash. The region  extends from the Sea of Ghosts on the northwest coast to the inland  town of Balmora, where the region is sandwiched between the Bitter Coast  and the Ashlands. The trading village of Gnisis is north of Ald'ruhn,  and the fishing villages of Ald Veloth and Khuul lie on the north coast.  The town of Caldera lies near Balmora. The herds of the Ashlanders of  Urshilaku camp graze on the sparse but hardy highland vegetation.
Balmora is the district seat of House Hlaalu, and the largest settlement  on Vvardenfell after Vivec City. Good roads lead north to Ald'ruhn and  south to Caldera, Seyda Neen, and Vivec City. The Imperial Legion  garrison of Fort Moonmoth lies south of Balmora.
Caldera is a recently chartered Imperial town and mining corporation.  The Caldera Mining Company has been granted an Imperial monopoly to  remove raw ebony from the rich deposits here. Caldera has the appearance  and flavor of a Western Imperial town.
Ald'ruhn is the district seat of House Redoran, and a large settlement.  The Redoran Council chambers are located inside the shell of an ancient  extinct giant crab. Tracks lead north to Maar Gan and Gnisis villages  and south to Balmora.
Gnisis is a small mining and trade village astride the silt strider  caravan route between the northwest West Gash and Ald'ruhn.
Ald Velothi and Khuul are tiny fishing villages on the northern coast of  the West Gash.
The large island of Sheogorad lies north of Vvardenfell. This island and  its associated lesser islands are a maritime wilderness extending north  from Vvardenfell into the Sea of Ghosts. The region is largely hostile  and uninhabited, with two small villages at Ald Redaynia and Dagon Fel.  Only Dagon Fel is reached by ship services; all other island-to-island  transport must be provided by the traveler.