
Vivec City is the largest settlement on Vvardenfell, and one of the  largest cities in the East. Each of the great cantons is the size of a  complete town. The High Fane and the palace of Vivec are visited by  hundreds of tourists and pilgrims daily. Citizens flock to the Arena for  public entertainments like mock battles and comic plays. Outlanders  mostly confine themselves to the Foreign Canton, while natives live,  work, and shop in the Great House compounds and residential cantons. But  most of all, this is Lord Vivec's holy city. The Ministry of Truth, the  Temple prison, hangs above the great temple of the High Fane, the Halls  of Wisdom and Justice, and Lord Vivec's Palace.
Vivec is a city made up of eight cantons, each a little town in itself.  On a map, it looks like a cross, with the Foreign Quarter at the top,  the Temple Compound, with Vivec's Palace, the High Fane, the Ministry of  Truth, and the Hall of Wisdom and the Hall of Justice at the bottom,  the Hlaalu Compound to the west, the Telvanni Compound on the east, and  four cantons grouped together at the center of the cross -- Redoran  Compound northwest, Arena northeast, St. Delyn's Canton southwest, and  St. Olms Canton southeast.
The Foreign Quarter is the large three-tiered canton to the north.  Originally, foreigners were not allowed to enter Vivec any further than  the Foreign Quarter, but now outlanders can travel throughout Vivec at  will. The Imperial Guilds each have guildhalls and complete services  here, and an Imperial cult shrine serves the spiritual needs of the  Imperial faithful. Various independent tradesmen, craftsmen, and  trainers also rent space here. The Black Shalk Cornerclub rents beds to  non-guild visitors.
The High Fane is the largest Tribunal temple on Vvardenfell. Archcanon  Saryoni presides over the temple, along with a large staff of priests,  healers, and monks. Pilgrims travel from all over Morrowind to view the  High Fane and the Ministry of Truth, and to offer prayer and thanks  before the Palace of Vivec. The Ministry of Truth, a celestial body  suspended by Vivec's mighty power over the Temple Compound, is the  headquarters of the Temple Ordinators, and heretics are imprisoned and  re-educated there. The Hall of Wisdom and Hall of Justice contain the  executive, administrative, judicial, and martial operations of the  Tribunal Temple. The Palace of Vivec is the abode of the god-hero Lord  Vivec, the Warrior-Poet of the three deities who comprise Almsivi, the  divine patrons of the Tribunal Temple. Only the most devout are admitted  to the presence of Lord Vivec, and only at his initiation. Beneath the  Palace of Vivec is the Puzzle Canal, a place of worship and testing for  questing heroes hoping to receive Vivec's favor. Many choice treasures  are guarded by Daedric servants in the Puzzle Canal's dark passages.
Hlaalu Compound is the westmost canton. The Hlaalu Councilor Crassius  Curio has a splendid tier-top mansion here. The tiers below contain  Hlaalu treasuries, records, holding cells, and various Great House  services. There are two public houses: the Elven Nations and the No Name  Club. A variety of craftsmen and tradesmen also have shops at Hlaalu  Compound. Some House Hlaalu nobles and retainers prefer to maintain  their residences in the less-formal St. Delyn and St. Olms cantons.
Telvanni Compound is the eastmost canton. The mage-lord Mavon Drenim is  the ranking Telvanni noble. The Telvanni rent the compound from the  Temple, and have to make do with a Velothi tower instead of their  preferred mushroom towers. The administrative center includes a treasury  and a hall of records. Slaves are housed in the lowest tiers, along  with cells full of monsters. There are many tradesmen, craftsmen, and  trainers, and the Lizard's Head cornerclub provides lodgings for  Telvanni kin and mercenaries.
Redoran Compound is the canton south of the Foreign Quarter, west of and  next to the Arena. The Redoran administrative center there includes the  Redoran Treasury, Hall of Records, and Holding Cells. On the lowest  tier is a Redoran shrine and ancestral vaults. Two noble families, the  Sarens and the Dralors, have top-tier manors. There are many tradesmen,  craftsmen, and trainers, and the Flowers of Gold cornerclub provides  lodgings for Redoran kin and retainers.
The Arena Compound lies between the Redoran compound on the west and the  Telvanni compound on the east. The Arena is the site of public  entertainments and combat sports. The comfortable domed Arena has  seating for hundreds of spectators; beneath the Arena are dressing and  storage rooms for entertainers and training rooms and animal pens for  the combat competitors.
St. Delyn Canton and St. Olms Canton are residence cantons for commoners  and paupers. The Temple charges very reasonable rents for comfortable  workshops, shops, and apartments, and most of Vvardenfell's crafts and  light industry are housed in these cantons. The Abbey of St. Delyn the  Wise is on the top tier of St. Delyn, and Hlaalu Councilor Yngling  Half-Troll has a top-tier manor on St. Olms.
Foot bridges connect with the mainland between the Ebonheart region and  Hlaalu Compound, between the north bay region and the Foreign Quarter,  and between the east bay region and Telvanni Compound. Good roads lead  from the Hlaalu Compound bridge south to Ebonheart and north to Seyda  Neen and points north. Good roads lead from the Foreign Quarter bridge  west towards Seyda Neen, north towards Suran and the Ascadian Isles, and  east towards Molag Mar. Roads from the Telvanni Compound bridge are  useful mostly for travelers to Molag Mar. Silt strider service is  available at the north end of the Foreign Quarter bridge, traveling from  Vivec to Suran, Seyda Neen, Balmora, and Molag Mar. Ships from the  docks at the Foreign Quarter travel to Ebonheart, Hla Oad, Molag Mar,  and Tel Branora. Ships from nearby Ebonheart sail to Hla Oad, Sadrith  Mora, Tel Branora, and the Foreign Quarter of Vivec. Low-fare gondolas  shuttle passengers from canton to canton via Vivec's canals.