
Balmora is the district seat of House Hlaalu, and the largest settlement  on Vvardenfell after Vivec City. Balmora's four districts are High  Town, the Commercial District, Labor Town, and Fort Moonmoth. High Town,  on the hill to the west, has the Tribunal Temple, Hlaalu Council Hall,  rich manors, better shops, and the Morag Tong guildhall. The Commercial  District, just west of the river, is centered on the large plaza north  of South Gate, with the strider port along the south wall, east of South  Gate. The Fighters Guild and Mages Guild, and most of Balmora's shops  and inns, are located along the streets of the Commercial District.  Labor Town, east of the river, where the commoners and poor live, has  several modest cornerclubs and a few merchants. Fort Moonmoth, a long  walk southeast of town, houses the Legion garrison and the Imperial  cult.
House Hlaalu services are available at Hlaalu Council Manor in High  Town. Temple faithful seek solace and services at the Balmora Temple in  the southeast. Outlanders must travel outside the town walls, through  South Gate and east along well-marked roads to Fort Moonmoth for  Imperial Legion and the Imperial cult services. The guildhalls of the  Fighters Guild and Mages Guild are on the street north from the plaza in  the Commercial District. Morag Tong services are available at their  guildhall in the extreme northwest of High Town. Better shops are in  High Town on the hill, with numerous merchants in the Commercial  District, west of the river, and a few traders in Labor Town, east of  the river.
None of the Hlaalu counselors live in Balmora. Nileno Dorvayn at the  Council Hall is the ranking Hlaalu local. At the Fighters Guild, Eydis  Fire-Eye is the steward. Ranis Athrys is the Mages Guild steward. Ethasi  Rilvayn is the Morag Tong steward. Feldrelo Sadri is the ranking cleric  of the Balmora Tribunal Temple. The colorful 'Sugar Lips' Habasi, a  freelance facilitator of no fixed address, is often rumored to be the  local boss of the Thieves Guild.
A good road leads south to Pelagiad, Seyda Neen, Ebonheart, and Vivec. A  rugged wilderness track leads southwest along the Odai River to the  fishing village of Hla Oad. Improved roads head north to Caldera and  Ald'ruhn. The silt strider port is on the west side of the river near  South Gate. Silt strider service goes to Ald'ruhn, Suran, Ald'ruhn, and  Seyda Neen. Guild guides at the Mages Guild can teleport you to  Ald'ruhn, Vivec, Caldera, and Sadrith Mora for a fee. Hla Oad is  southwest on the coast. An unimproved trail leads northeast up the  ravines of Foyada Mamaea to Ghostgate; the path is easy to follow, but  dangerous beasts threaten pilgrims who travel this route to Ghostgate  shrine.