Many admirers ask, "Arnie, how can I become a flash and prosperous  fellow like you?"
And I tell them, "You want to join the Guild. Make friends. Be a part of  something."
"But who can join?" they ask.
We're just like any other trade guild. We've got requirements. And if  you want to advance in the ranks, we've got standards.
You want to be fast and agile. You want to move undetected. You want to  know about security -- locks, traps, and how to get around them. You  want to defend yourself. You travel light and fast, and want light arms  like daggers and shortswords. You don't want to get into a slugging  match, so you want the marksman's weapons -- the bow, crossbow, throwing  star, and dart. You want light armor, so you can keep moving, and  moving fast.
Why belong? Simple. Everybody needs friends.
The help of friends includes information. Your friends at the Thieves  Guild know where the action is, and where the action is safe, and where  it is not. The help of friends includes a place to rest, and a place to  buy supplies and services -- training and tools. The help of friends  includes fixing things with the guards at a discount rate. That's where  the 'honor among thieves' part comes in. Friends stick together, and  help each other.
"But what about the competition?" my admirers ask.
The competition is the Camonna Tong. And you don't want to join them,  because they don't want you. They have this thing about outlanders. They  want them all dead. So, unless your ambition is to be dead, you don't  want to join them.
And the Camonna Tong are bad people. The Camonna Tong don't mind killing  people. Heck, they LIKE killing people. The Thieves Guild, on the other  hand, thinks killing people is bad business. You want to be good  people, right? So join the Thieves Guild, and stay far, far away from  the Camonna Tong.
So you want to join. But where do you look?
Being a thief is not like being a fighter. You don't just go to the  local guild Hall. The Thieves Guild doesn't have Guild Halls. But  thieves like to be where their friends are. And where are their friends?  At the local cornerclub or tradehouse. In Vvardenfell, look for friends  in Balmora, Ald'ruhn, Sadrith Mora, and the Foreign Quarter of Vivec.