Ajira studies four common mushrooms in Vvardenfell.
Luminous Russula is a toadstool like mushroom with a brown spot on top.  All Russula has strong odors, but Luminous Russula much stronger.  Russula can be poison if not prepared right. When mixed with pearl dust  it makes very good potion to breathe under the water.
Violet Coprinus is a tall toadstool that glows in the night. Coprinus  also is poison if mixed wrongly like if you mix with Russula. Coprinus  mixed with scales lets Ajira walk on the water instead of under the  water. Much better.
Bungler's Bane looks like a brown shelf and grows from trees and  sometimes wet rocks. Bungler's Bane very bad for you when mixed with  almost anything. Very hard to use, but Ajira found Bungler's Bane and  left over crushed pearl makes good dispel potion. No bad effects with  Ajira's skill, but potion tastes very bad.
Hypha Facia looks just like Bungler's Bane. Confuses Ajira very easily,  but Bungler's Bane smells more dry and dusty. Hypha Facia has little  smell, but taste is very moist. Hypha Facia very good mushroom for  eating, but too much makes Ajira clumsy. Ajira used Hypha Facia to make  the nix hound meat more edible, and Ajira could smell all enchantments  in Ajira's room. Ajira found no other use for Hypha Facia.
Ajira works very hard to go all over Bitter Coast and collect all these  mushrooms. Ajira deserves rank of Journeyman much sooner than Galbedir.
Ajira studies hard to learn secret magical properties of Gold Kanet,  Stoneflower Petals, Willow Anther, and Heather.
Gold Kanet has yellow flowers and very dark green leaves with sharp  spines. Gold Kanet and Stoneflower Petals makes a paste that restores  strength. The paste has some bad effects, but they last only short time.
Stoneflowers are dark blue and the flowers are very heavy so they bend  to the ground. It is very expensive, but Ajira can gain more magicka for  a short time by mixing Stoneflower petals with crushed emeralds and  water.
Willow flowers are red and very tall with tall and thin leaves also.  Willow very good for potions and has many uses. With frost salts, Ajira  made a shield of frost. With grave dust and green lichens, Ajira made a  potion to cure common diseases. And with Corkbulb Ajira made a potion  that can cure paralyzation.
Ajira thinks Heather comes from Skyrim because the leaves look like the  spiny leaves of trees in Skyrim. The flowers are also pink like the Nord  people. When mixed with ruby, it makes very good potion to make you not  weigh so much. With a scrap of Scamp skin, Ajira made a potion to  restore personality.
Ajira works very hard to collect these flower samples from the dangerous  Lake Amaya. Ajira must do two reports and Galbedir must only do one  silly report. Ajira deserves rank of Journeyman very soon now.