[summarized from the Apographa by Gilvas Barelo, Abbot of Holamayan, and  various of the Dissident Priests ]
Beneath Red Mountain, Dwemer miners discovered a great magical stone. By  diverse methods, Lord Kagrenac, High Priest and Magecrafter of the  ancient Dwemer, determined that this magical stone was the heart of the  god Lorkhan, cast here in the Dawn Era as a punishment for his mischief  in creating the mortal world. Determined to use its divine powers to  create a new god for the exclusive benefit of the Dwemer, Kagrenac  forged three great enchanted artifacts, which are called "Kagrenac's  Tools." Wraithguard is an enchanted gauntlet to protect its wearer from  destruction when tapping the heart's power. Sunder is a enchanted hammer  to strike the heart and produce the exact volume and quality of power  desired. Keening is an enchanted blade that is used to flay and focus  the power that rises from the heart.
When Kagrenac used these tools on the heart in the Battle of Red  Mountain, no one knows what happened, but the Dwemer race disappeared  entirely from the mortal world. Lord Nerevar and Lord Dagoth retrieved  these tools, and didn't know what to do with them. Nerevar asked Dagoth  to guard the tools while he went to consult with his counselors, Vivec,  Almalexia, and Sotha Sil. He left and spoke with his three counselors,  and they decided to return together to Red Mountain to decide what to  do.
But while Nerevar was gone, Dagoth was tempted and confused by the  powers of the tools. When Nerevar and the counselors arrived, he refused  to give up the tools, claiming he had sworn to Nerevar to protect them.  Then Dagoth fought with Nerevar and the counselors, and was mortally  wounded and driven off, and the tools were recovered.
Then Nerevar and his counselors decided to take the tools for  safekeeping. They all swore a great oath never to use the tools, but  after Nerevar's death, Vivec, Almalexia, and Sotha Sil yielded to  temptation. They took these tools themselves and went to Lorkhan's heart  buried beneath Red Mountain, and gave themselves divine powers.
But Dagoth had not died. We don't know what happened, but this is what  we believe. His experiments with Kagrenac's Tools had joined him to the  heart's divine nature in some way, so that he learned to draw power  directly from the heart.
We conjecture that Dagoth Ur, driven by anger and greed, used the heart  without caution and restraint, and, as a result, he has become terribly  powerful, and terribly mad. But the Tribunal showed great care and  restraint in their use of the tools, and so they were not driven mad,  and they did many good things. Nonetheless, the Tribunal, too, appear to  heave been corrupted by the heart's power, though more subtly.
Kagrenac's Tools are cursed. Stealing power from the heart of a god is a  terrible folly, and fated to disaster. The Tribunal is losing its  battle to control the power of the heart. They are sustained by the same  tainted power that drives Dagoth Ur mad. They grow weak, and cannot  protect us from Dagoth Ur. But even if they could, would we be wise to  worship gods such as these? They conceal the truth from us out of shame.  They persecute the Nerevarine and the Dissident priests out of shame,  when they should be welcoming them and enlisting their aid against  Dagoth Ur.
The Tribunal have done much good for Morrowind and the Dunmer. But they  succumbed to the temptation of Kagrenac's Tools, and though these tools  once may have seemed the instruments of salvation, now they must be seen  as instruments of doom.