Undead commonly occur in three basic types: spirit, flesh, and  fleshless. Spirit revenants like the ancestor ghost, wraith, and dwarven  ghost, can only be harmed by weapons that are enchanted or made of  refined substances such as silver. Ancestor ghosts, the most common  spirit revenant, are harmless, apart from the minor curses they lay upon  their victims. Wraiths are similar to ghosts, but they are capable of  inflicting wounds to the careless explorer. Dwarven ghosts are more  dangerous still, but they generally appear only in Dwarven ruins.
Flesh revenants, or 'zombies' as they are often called in the West, are  known as 'bonewalkers' in Morrowind. Magic preserves the bonewalker's  fleshy remains along with the bones and spirit. Bonewalkers are readily  identified by the sharp protuberances of bone and metal employed in the  rituals that bind them to this plane. All bonewalkers are malevolent and  dangerous, but the greater bonewalkers are far worse than the more  common 'lesser' bonewalkers. Thankfully, normal weapons harm  bonewalkers.
It is difficult to generalize about fleshless revenants, or skeletons.  The agility and fighting ability of the animated remains may depend on  the abilities of the revenant's former life, and may therefore be weak  or strong, or more or less capable with weapons and shields.  Fortunately, enchanted weapons are not needed to destroy skeletons. An  exception is the bonelord, a peculiar form of revenant that seems to  derive its powers more from its spirit energies than from the substance  of its skeletal remains. Bonelords are very powerful, and very  dangerous. Normal weapons do not affect them.
Vampires were believed to be extinct in Morrowind for centuries. Dunmer  culture has a special hatred for vampires, and in earlier times the  Ordinators and Buoyant Armigers hunted them to extinction. In recent  years, however, vampires have either begun to sneak into Morrowind, or  long-dormant ones have been awakened. Vampires vary in their substance  and power according to their age and accumulated lore, but even the  weakest vampire is immeasurably stronger than most other undead. Note:  Ash vampires are not vampires, and are not undead. Ash vampires are  extremely dangerous. While their spirit and substance may indeed be  preserved by some magical process, the holy warriors of the Tribunal  Temple report that spell effects known to affect the undead have no  effect on ash vampires.