
Three hundred years ago, when Katariah became Empress, the first and  only Dunmer to rule all of Tamriel, she faced opposition from the  Imperial Council. Even after she convinced them that she would be the  best regent to rule the Empire while her husband Pelagius sought  treatment for his madness, there was still conflict. In particular from  the Duke of Vengheto, Thane Minglumire, who took a particular delight in  exposing all of the Empress's lack of practical knowledge.
In this particular instance, Katariah and the Council were discussing  the unrest in Black Marsh, the massacre of Imperial troops outside the  village of Armanias. The sodden swampland and the sweltering climate,  particular in summertide, would endanger the troops if they wore their  usual armor.
"I know a very clever armorer," said Katariah, "His name is Hazadir, an  Argonian who knows the environments our army will be facing. He knew him  in Vivec where he was a slave to the master armorer there, before he  moved to the Imperial City as a freedman. We should have him design  armor and weaponry for the campaign."
Minglumire gave a short, barking laugh: "She wants a slave to design the  armor and weaponry for our troops! Sirollus Saccus is the finest  armorer in the Imperial City. Everyone knows that."
After much debate, it was finally decided to have both armorers contend  for the commission. The Council also elected two champions of equal  power and prowess, Nandor Beraid and Raphalas Eul, to battle using the  arms and armaments of the real competitors in the struggle. Whichever  champion won, the armorer who supplied him would earn the Imperial  commission. It was decided that Beraid would be outfitted by Hazadir,  and Eul by Saccus.
The fight was scheduled to commence in seven days.
Sirollus Saccus began work immediately. He would have preferred more  time, but he recognized the nature of the test. The situation in  Armanias was urgent. The Empire had to select their armorer quickly, and  once selected, the preferred armorer had to act swiftly and produce the  finest armor and weaponry for the Imperial army in Black Marsh. It  wasn't just the best armorer they were looking for. It was the most  efficient.
Saccus had only begun steaming the half-inch strips of black virgin oak  to bend into bands for the flanges of the armor joints when there was a  knock at his door. His assistant Phandius ushered in the visitor. It was  a tall reptilian of common markings, a dull, green-fringed hood, bright  black eyes, and a dull brown cloak. It was Hazadir, Katariah's  preferred armorer.
"I wanted to wish you the best of luck on the -- is that ebony?"
It was indeed. Saccus had bought the finest quality ebony weave  available in the Imperial City as soon as he heard of the competition  and had begun the process of smelting it. Normally it was a six month  procedure refining the ore, but he hoped that a massive convection oven  stoked by white flames born of magicka would shorten the operation to  three days. Saccus proudly pointed out the other advancements in his  armory. The acidic lime pools to sharpen the blade of the dai-katana to  an unimaginable degree of sharpness. The Akaviri forge and tongs he  would use to fold the ebony back and forth upon itself. Hazadir laughed.
"Have you been to my armory? It's two tiny smoke-filled rooms. The front  is a shop. The back is filled with broken armor, some hammers, and a  forge. That's it. That's your competition for the millions of gold  pieces in Imperial commission."
"I'm sure the Empress has some reason to trust you to outfit her  troops," said Sirollus Saccus, kindly. He had, after all, seen the shop  and knew that what Hazadir said was true. It was a pathetic workshop in  the slums, fit only for the lowliest of adventurers to get their iron  daggers and cuirasses repaired. Saccus had decided to make the best  quality regardless of the inferiority of his rival. It was his way and  how he became the best armorer in the Imperial City.
Out of kindness, and more than a bit of pride, Saccus showed Hazadir  how, by contrast, things should be done in a real professional armory.  The Argonian acted as an apprentice to Saccus, helping him refine the  ebony ore, and to pound it and fold it when it cooled. Over the next  several days, they worked together to create a beautiful dai-katana with  an edge honed to a keen sharp enough to trim a mosquito's eyebrows, and  a suit of armor of bound wood, leather, silver, and ebony to resist the  winds of Oblivion.
On the day of the battle, Saccus, Hazadir, and Phandius finished  polishing the armor and brought in Raphalas Eul for the fitting. Hazadir  left only then, realizing that Nandor Beraid would be at his shop  shortly to be outfitted.
The two warriors met in the arena in the Imperial City with an audience  of the Empress and the Imperial Council two hours later. From the moment  Saccus saw Eul in his suit of shining ebony and dai-katana blazing and  Beraid in his collection of dusty, rusted merchandise from Hazadir's  shop, he knew who would win. And he was right.
The first blow from the dai-katana lodged in the soft shield, as there  was no metal trim to deflect it. Before Eul could pull his sword back,  Beraid lashed out with his long sword at the weak points in the armor,  it was the perfect weapon to perforate the joints. Eul retrieved his  sword and slashed at Beraid but his armor was scaled and angled, and the  attacks rolled off like water. When Eul's armor began to fall off, the  Empress and Council, out of mercy, called a victor.
Hazadir received the commission and thanks to his knowledge of Argonian  battle tactics and weaponry and how best to combat them, he designed  implements of war that brought down the insurrection in Armanias.  Katariah won the respect of Council, and even, grudgingly, that of Thane  Minglumire. Sirollus Saccus went to Morrowind to learn what Hazadir  learned there, and was never heard from again.