
He walked through the dry, crowded streets of Bal Fell, glad to be among  so many strangers. In the wharfs, he had no such anonymity. There, they  knew him to be a smuggler, but here, he could be anyone. A lower-class  peddler perhaps. A student even. Some people even pushed against him as  he walked past as if to say, "We would not dream of being so rude as to  acknowledge that you don't belong here."
Seryne Relas was not in any of the taverns, but he knew she was  somewhere, perhaps behind a tenement window or poking around in a  dunghill for an exotic ingredient for some spell or another. Of the ways  of sorceresses, he knew only that they were always doing something  eccentric. Because of this prejudice, he nearly passed by the old Dunmer  woman having a drink from a well. It was too prosaic, but he knew from  the look of her that she was Seryne Relas, the great sorceress.
"I have gold for you," he said to her back. "If you will teach me the  secret of breathing water."
She turned around, a wide wet grin stretched across her weathered  features. "I ain't breathing it, boy. I'm just having a drink."
"Don't mock me," he said, stiffly. "Either you're Seryne Relas and you  will teach me the spell of breathing water, or you aren't. Those are the  only possibilities."
"If you're going to learn to breathe water, you're going to have to  learn there are more possibilities than that, boy. The School of  Alteration is all about possibilities, changing patterns, making things  be what they could be. Maybe I ain't Seryne Relas, but I can teach how  to breathe water," she wiped her mouth dry. "Or maybe I am Seryne Relas  and I won't. Or maybe I can teach you to breath water, but you can't  learn."
"I'll learn," he said, simply.
"Why don't you just buy yourself a spell of water breathing or a potion  over at the Mages Guild?" she asked. "That's how it's generally done."
"They're not powerful enough," he said. "I need to be underwater for a  long time. I'm willing to pay whatever you ask, but I don't want any  questions. I was told you could teach me."
"What's your name, boy?"
"That's a question," he replied. His name was Tharien Winloth, but in  the wharfs, they called him the Tollman. His job, such as it was, was  collecting a percentage of the loot from the smugglers when they came  into harbor to bring to his boss in the Camonna Tong. From that  percentage, he earned a smaller percentage. In the end it was very small  indeed. He had scarcely any gold of his own, and what he had, he gave  to Seryne Relas.
The lessons began that very day. The sorceress brought her pupil out to a  low sandbank along the sea.
"I will teach you a powerful spell for breathing water, boy," she said.  "But you must become a master of it. As with all spells and all skills,  the more you practice, the better you get. Even that ain't enough. To  achieve true mastery, you must understand what it is you're doing. It  ain't simply enough to perform a perfect thrust of a blade -- you must  also know what you are doing and why."
"That's common sense," said Tharien
"Yes, it is," said Seryne, closing her eyes. "But the spells of  Alteration are all about uncommon sense. The infinite possibilities,  breaking the sky, swallowing space, dancing with time, setting ice on  fire, believing the unreal may become real. You must learn the rules of  the cosmos and break them."
"That sounds ... very difficult," replied Tharien, trying to keep a  straight face.
Seryne pointed to the small silver fish darting along the water's edge:  "They don't find it so. They breath water just fine."
"But that's not magic."
"What I'm saying to you, boy, is that it is."
For several weeks, Seryne drilled her student, and the more he  understood about what he was doing and the more he practiced, the longer  he could breath underwater. When he found that he could cast the spell  for as long as he needed, he thanked the sorceress and bade her  farewell.
"There is one last lesson I have to teach you," she said. "You must  learn that desire is not enough. The world will end your spell no matter  how good you are, and no matter how much you want it."
"That's a lesson I'm happy not to learn," he said, and left at once for  the short journey back to the wharfs of Tear.
The wharfs were much the same, with all the same smells, the same  sounds, and the same characters. He learned from his mates that the Boss  found a new Tollman. They were still looking out for the smuggler ship  Morodrung, but they had given up hope of ever seeing it. Tharien knew  they would not. He saw it sink in the bay weeks ago. On a moonless  night, he cast his spell and dove into the thrashing purple waves. He  kept his mind on the world of possibilities, that books could sing, that  green was blue, that that water was air, that every stroke and kick  brought him closer to a sunken ship filled with treasure. He felt  magicka surge all around him as he pushed his way deeper down. Ahead he  saw a ghostly shadow of the Morodrung, its mast billowing in a wind of  deep-water currents. He also felt his spell begin to fade. He could  break reality long enough to breath water all the way back up to the  surface, but not enough to reach the ship.
The next night, he dove again, and this time, the spell was stronger. He  could see the vessel in detail, clouded over and dusted in sediment. He  saw the wound in its hull where it struck the rocks. A glint of gold  beckoned from within. But he felt reality closing in, and he had to  surface.
The third night, he made it into the steerage, past the bloated corpses  of the sailors, nibbled and picked apart by fish. Their glassy eyes  bulging, their mouths stretched open. Had they only known the spell, he  thought briefly, but his mind was more occupied by the gold scattered  along the floor that spilled from broken chests and sacks. He considered  scooping as much he could carry into his pockets, but a sturdy iron box  seemed to bespeak more treasures.
On the wall was a row of keys. He took each down and tried it on the  locked box, but none opened it. One key, however, was missing. Tharien  looked around the room. Where could it be? His eyes went to the corpse  of one of the sailors, floating in a dance of death not far from the  box, his hands tightly clutching something. It was a key. When the ship  had begun to sink, this sailor had evidently gone for the iron box.  Whatever was in it had to be very valuable.
Tharien took the sailor's key and opened the box. It was filled with  broken glass. He rummaged around until he felt something solid, and  pulled out two flasks of some kind of wine. He smiled as he considered  the foolishness of the poor alcoholic. This was what was important to  the sailor, out of all the treasure in the Morodrung.
Then, suddenly, Tharien Winloth felt reality.
He had not been paying attention to the grim, tireless advance of the  world on his spell. It was fading away, his ability to breath water.  There was no time to surface. There was no time to do anything. As he  sucked in, his lungs filled with cold, briney water.
A few days later, the smugglers working on the wharf came upon the  drowned body of the former Tollman. Finding a body in the water in Tear  was not in itself noteworthy, but the subject that they discussed over  many bottles of flin was how it could happen that he drowned with two  potions of water breathing in his hands?