The missionary arm of the great faiths, the Imperial cult brings divine  inspiration and consolation to the Empire's remote provinces. The cults  combine the worship of the Nine Divines, the Aedra Akatosh, Dibella,  Arkay, Zenithar, Mara, Stendarr, Kynareth, and Julianos, and the Talos  cult, veneration of the divine god-hero Tiber Septim, founder and patron  of the Empire. Imperial cult priests provide worship and services for  all these gods at Imperial shrines in settlements throughout  Vvardenfell.
Our doctrines are simple. We acknowledge the divinity of the Nine  Divines: Akatosh, Dibella, Arkay, Zenithar, Mara, Stendarr, Kynareth,  Julianos, and Tiber Septim. We preach the Nine Virtues: Humility,  Inspiration, Piety, Work, Compassion, Justice, Ambition, Learning, and  Civility. Our Emperor is the Defender of the Faith, and the Empire is  the worldly working of the Divine Plan. We pledge aid and comfort to all  citizens in need, and serve the Emperor and Empire at his will.
The Imperial cults look to the Nine Divines as models for living a good  and virtuous life. Each of the Nine represents different aspects of  life, and how it should be lived. But the simplest statement of our  doctrines is -- help and protect one another. The stronger one is, the  wealthier one is, the more one bears responsibility for helping and  protecting others. One's first duty, of course, is to one's fellow  members of the Imperial Cult. But after that, one should help and  protect any needy persons.
We also say, "do not harm one another." It is forbidden to attack  another person of the Imperial cult, and of course, forbidden to kill  another member. It is forbidden to steal from another member, whether by  open theft or by covert pickpocketing. It is forbidden to trespass upon  the private property of another member. Break any one of these rules,  and be expelled from the cult.
The Imperial cult accepts all citizens of good character and earnest  faith. We ask only a one-time pledge of 50 drakes to aid us in our good  works. Thereafter, the only cost of membership comes when you use our  health, healing, and blessing shrines -- modest fees which help us  spread the blessings of the Nine to those less fortunate than ourselves.
Those who wish to join the Imperial cult in Vvardenfell will find a warm  welcome from our cult greeters: Ygfa at Fort Pelagiad, Syloria  Siruliulus at Buckmoth Legion Fort, Somutis Vunnis at Moonmoth Legion  Fort, Ruccia Conician in the Grand Council Chambers in Ebonheart, or  Lalatia Varian in the Imperial Chapels at Ebonheart.
Seekers who wish to advance in the service of the Nine must dedicate  time and resources to serving the cult, and must strive for personal  improvement in their attributes and skills. Only the most distinguished  are worthy of advancement to the higher ranks in the Imperial cults.
To serve and glorify the Nine Divines, the faithful must cultivate a  noble personality and a strong will. Respect the magical arts,  especially the colleges of Restoration, Mysticism, and Conjuration.  Those who swear to avoid bloodshed, to take the field unarmored to fight  only with blunt weapons, are especially praiseworthy. Knowledge of  enchantments and the gift of diplomatic speech are other qualities we  value in our initiates.
You can find Imperial cult services in Buckmoth Legion Fort, Moonmoth  Legion Fort, Pelagiad Legion Fort, Gnisis Legion Fort, Wolverine Hall in  Sadrith Mora, Vivec Foreign Quarter, and Imperial chapels in Ebonheart.  Seek training at Wolverine Hall, Buckmoth Fort, Moonmoth Fort,  Ebonheart Imperial Chapels, Governor's Hall in Caldera, and Ald Velothi  Outpost.
Many Imperial cult locations have healing altars. You may pray at  Imperial cult healing altars and receive blessings which cure common and  blight diseases, cure poisons, and restore damaged attributes.  Non-members pay 25 drakes. Non-members pay 25 drakes. Newer members pay  10 drakes, while higher-ranking members receive blessings free. Healing  altars are found in: Vivec Foreign Quarter; Wolverine Hall in Sadrith  Mora; Buckmoth Legion Fort; Moonmoth Legion Fort; Pelagiad Legion Fort;  Gnisis Legion Fort; and Imperial Chapels in Ebonheart.
Lay healers gather ingredients for health and healing potions, and  minister to the sick and hurt in poor and isolated communities. It is  difficult and sometimes dangerous work, but the spiritual rewards are  great. Lay healers need only the skills of the prudent traveler, being  often on the road and in the wilderness, gathering herbs and potion  components. They should avoid trouble where possible, and so need not be  masters of the arts of war. Those interested should speak to Synnolian  Tunifus at the Imperial Chapels in Ebonheart.
Almoners gather alms from members and friends of the faith. We depend on  donations to fund most of our good works. Almoners who are successful  at bringing in generous donations may rise in the ranks of Imperial  Cults service. Almoners must travel in town and village, and should be  skilled in persuasion and mercantile matters. Also, almoners with  personal wealth are in a position to better serve the cult. Those  interested should speak to Iulus Truptor at the Imperial Chapels in  Ebonheart.
A shrine sergeant helps keep order at the shrines, carries messages and  packages, and sometimes escorts priests and lay servants on dangerous  missions. This occasional service is ideal for bold, free-spirited  adventurers. Shrine sergeants are called upon to serve the Nine with  weapon, armor, and spell. New shrine sergeants are given the easiest  tasks, but later, missions may demand higher levels of combat  proficiency. Those interested should speak to Kaye at the Imperial  Chapels in Ebonheart.
Oracle's Quests are the most demanding of all Imperial cult missions.  Only members of the higher ranks are invited to assist the Oracle, and  the challenges require the skill and courage found only in heroes of  legend.
The Imperial cults have a very close relationship with the Imperial  legions, and a friendly and supportive relationship with the Imperial  Guilds -- especially the Fighters and Mages Guilds. We also have a  friendly and supportive relationship with House Hlaalu, which strongly  supports the Emperor and Imperial principles. Though we cannot condone  the actions of the Thieves Guild, we praise their faithful dedication to  the Emperor and to Imperial culture.
The Imperial cults have the greatest respect for the high moral  principles of House Redoran and the Morag Tong, and honors their  different but noble conceptions of Divine Inspiration.
We disapprove of the primitive heathen beliefs of the Ashlanders, and of  the impious and inhumane practices of the Telvanni. The Imperial cult  especially disapproves of the practice of slavery, and looks forward to  the day when slavery is illegal in all Imperial provinces. The Imperial  cult also disapproves of the lawless and greedy Camonna Tong, and their  ruthless exploitation of the poor and weak.
Historically, our relationship with the Tribunal Temple is difficult and  unfriendly. Though the Imperial cults acknowledges the lords and saints  of the Temple pantheon as worthy inspirations, the Temple falsely  insists that theirs is the One True Faith, and that the Imperial cults  worship false gods.