[The following are Huleeya's notes for Caius Cosades.]
In First Era barbaric Dunmer culture, settled Dunmer clans (the Great  Houses) and nomadic Dunmer tribes (like the Ashlanders) were roughly  equal in numbers and wealth. Under the civilized peace of the Grand  Council, and with the strong central authority of the Temple, the  economic and military power of the settled Dunmer quickly outstripped  that of the nomadic Dunmer. The nomadic Dunmer were marginalized into  the poorest, most hostile land, in particular, into the Vvardenfell  wastes. For the Ashlanders, the return of a reincarnated Nerevar  represents a longed for and largely romanticized Golden Age of Nerevar's  Peace, when the nomadic tribes enjoyed equality with the settled  Dunmer, and before the Dunmer people had for the most part abandoned  traditional ancestor worship for the autocratic theocracy of the  Tribunal Temple.
 
This is the story of Nerevar as an Ashlander might tell it.
 
In ancient days, the Deep Elves and a great host of outlanders from the  West came to steal the land of the Dunmer. In that time, Nerevar was the  great khan and warleader of the House People, but he honored the  Ancient Spirits and the Tribal law, and became as one of us. So, when  Nerevar pledged upon his great Ring of the Ancestors,  One-Clan-Under-Moon-and-Star, to honor the ways of the Spirits and  rights of the Land, all the Tribes joined the House People to fight a  great battle at Red Mountain. Though many Dunmer, Tribesman and  Houseman, died at Red Mountain, the Dwemer were defeated and their evil  magicks destroyed, and the outlanders driven from the land. But after  this great victory, the power-hungry khans of the Great Houses slew  Nerevar in secret, and, setting themselves up as gods, neglected  Nerevar's promises to the Tribes. But it is said that Nerevar will come  again with his ring, and cast down the false gods, and by the power of  his ring will make good his promises to the Tribes, to honor the Spirits  and drive the outsiders from the land.
 
The Tribunal Temple regards the mysticism and prophecy of the Nerevarine  cult as primitive superstition. The Ashlander Ancestor cults and the  Nerevarines in particular have always decried the worship of living  Dunmer as abominations, suspecting the unnatural lifetimes of the  Tribunal to be signs of profane sorcery or necromancy. Though the  authoritarian and intolerant Temple priesthood has always been inclined  to tolerate Ashlander ancestor cult practices, they have always  threatened Nerevarine claimants with death or imprisonment. And while  generally tolerant of various cult worships, the Imperial Commission of  the Occupation outlaws cults hostile to the Emperor and the Empire, and  threatens members of such cults with imprisonment or death. The  Ordinators are allowed a free hand when dealing with outlawed cults like  the Nerevarines.
 
In the past, others have claimed to be the reincarnated Nerevar of  prophecy. The most recent is known as Peakstar, a mysterious figure who  has reportedly appeared and disappeared among the Wastes tribes over the  last 30 years. The Temple notes that these False Incarnates discredit  the Nerevarine prophecies. Singularly, and illogically, the Ashlanders  acknowledge a history of false claimants, calling them "Failed  Incarnates," but they regard them as proof of the validity of the  prophecies, rather than contradiction. Among the Nerevarines there is a  fable of a Cavern of the Incarnates, where the spirits of the Failed  Incarnates dwell. The Nerevarine cult is a mystical cult, and it  glorifies, rather than shrinks from, contradictions.