EXCERPT: concerning the points of Temple doctrine challenged by the  Dissident priests:
Temple doctrine claims their apotheosis was miraculously achieved  through questing, virtue, knowledge, testing, and battling with Evil;  Temple doctrine claims their divine powers and immortality are  ultimately conferred as a communal judgement by the Dunmer ancestors  [including, among others, the Good Daedra, the prophet Veloth, and Saint  Nerevar]. Dissident Priests ask whether Dagoth Ur's powers and the  Tribunal powers might ultimately derive from the same source -- Red  Mountain. Sources in the Apographa suggest that the Tribunal relied on  profanely enchanted tools to achieve godhead, and that those unholy  devices were the ones originally created by the ungodly Dwemer sorceror  Kagrenac to create the False Construct Numidium.
The Dissident Priests say that the Temple has always maintained a public  face [represented by the Heirographa -- the "priestly writings"] and a  hidden face [represented by the Apographa -- the "hidden writings"]. The  public account portrays the actions of the Tribunal in a heroic light,  while the hidden writings reveal secrets, untruths, inconsistencies,  conflicting accounts and varying interpretations which hint at darker  and less heroic motives and actions of the Tribunes. In particular,  conflicting accounts of the battle at Red Mountain raise questions about  the Tribunal's conduct, and about the source of their subsequent  apotheosis. Also, there is good evidence that the Tribunal have been  concealing the true nature of the threat posed by Dagoth Ur at Red  Mountain, misleading the people about the Tribunal's ability to protect  Morrowind from Dagoth Ur, and concealing a recent dramatic diminishing  of the Tribunal's magical powers.
Ashlander tradition does not place the Tribunal at Red Mountain, and  holds that the Dwemer destroyed themselves, rather than that Nerevar  destroyed them. Ashlander tradition further holds that Nerevar left  Dagoth Ur guarding the profane secrets of Red Mountain while Nerevar  went to confer with the Grand Council [i.e., the Tribunal], that Nerevar  died at the conference [not of his wounds, according to the Ashlanders,  but from treachery], and that subsequently the Tribunal confronted a  defiant Dagoth Ur within Red Mountain, then drove Dagoth Ur beneath Red  Mountain when he would not yield to their will.
While challenging the divinity of the Tribunal, the Dissidents do not  challenge the sainthood or heroism of the Tribunal. In fact, the  Dissident Priests advocate restoring many of the elements of  Fundamentalist Ancestor Worship as practiced by the Ashlanders and by  Saint Veloth. Exactly how this would work is debated inconclusively  within the Dissident Priests.
Though no consensus exists among the Dissidents about whether the  Nerevarine prophecies are genuine, all agree that the persecution of the  Nerevarines is unjust and politically motivated. The Dissident Priests  do not reject mysticism, revelation, or prophecy as part of the  religious experience. The Dissidents have not resolved the issue of true  or false insights. They have studied the mysticism of the Ashlander  Ancestor Cults, in particular the rites of the Ashlander seers and wise  women, and the prophecies of the Incarnate. Many among the Dissident  Priests have come to believe that the Nerevarine prophecies are genuine,  and have made a systematic study of prophecies recorded in Temple  archives.
The Dissident Priests reject the authority of the Archcanon and the  Ordinators. The temple hierarchy has been corrupted by self-interest and  politics, and no longer acts in the best interests of the Temple or its  worshippers. The Dissident Priests believe the Archcanon and Ordinators  speak for themselves, not for the Tribunal.
Within the Temple hierarchy it is an open secret that the Ordinators  rely on abduction, terror, torture, and secret imprisonment to  discourage heresy and dissent. The Dissident Priests feel the Ordinators  are either out of control, or tools used to maintain a corrupt  priesthood in power.
Though the Dissident Priests acknowledge that most rank-and-file priests  honor the best traditions of the Temple, they believe that many priests  in higher ranks are interested more in love of authority and luxury  than in the welfare of the poor, weak, and ignorant.