[from the correspondence of Cuseius Plecia, Imperial trader, writing  from the Vos Tradehouse in Vvardenfell District, Province of Morrowind]
"...I have noted that Heartlanders like myself, and assimilated  Imperial Citizens of other races, tend to impersonal and formal  relationships with their gods and spirits. For us, cults are first and  foremost social and economic organizations. We typically think of the  Eight Divines in the most abstract terms -- as powerful but indifferent  spirits to be propitiated, and do not think of their relationships as  personal. Notable exceptions include minor charismatic sub-cults of  Akatosh and Dibella. The Imperial Cult of Tiber Septim also has a  significant charismatic sub-cult.
With the exception of the Alessian Order, which Heartlanders regard  as a dark age, religious cults have played only minor parts in  Heartlander and Imperial history. The Septim emperors have made it a  policy to limit the influence of cult authorities in aristocratic,  military, and bureaucratic affairs. Cult worship is regarded as a  private and practical matter, and public pronouncements by religious  figures are not welcomed.
Nordic hero-cults provide a strong counter-current to the dominant  secularism of the Empire. The Imperial cult of Tiber Septim is just such  a hero-cult, and among the military, provincial colonists, and recently  assimilated foreigners, the cult is particularly strong and personal.
The Tribunal Temple in Morrowind, and its predecessor, house ancestor  cults, are, by contrast with Imperial cults, extremely intimate and  personal. In ancestor cults, the worshipper has a direct relationship  with a blood family ancestor spirit, and the Temple cultist's  relationship with the Tribunal is a relationship with a living,  breathing god who walks the earth, speaks in person with priests and  cultists, and whose daily actions are prescribed models for the daily  actions of their followers.
The differences in religious temperament between Heartlanders and  Morrowind Dunmer accounts in large part for consistent political and  social misunderstanding between the two cultures. Heartlanders do not  consider cult affairs as serious matters, where the Dunmer consider cult  affairs, and in particular, ancestral spirit veneration, to be very  serious matters indeed.
Heartlanders are casual and tolerant in religious matters; Dunmer are  passionate and extremely intolerant. Heartlanders do not speak with  their gods, and do not think of their actions as under constant review  and judgement by their gods; the Dunmer feel that all they think and do  is under the ever-watchful eye of the Tribunal and family ancestor  spirits...."