[This volume of the Hierographa (i.e., 'priestly writings') was written  and collected with commentary by Archcanon Tholer Saryoni. It is the  best selling of the Temple annotated texts, and therefore inexpensive  and commonly found in most Dunmer households. Saryoni collects Vivec's  most famous sermons and the popular explanations of his Gospels. This  text exists in many editions. More elaborate editions are handsomely  illuminated with Vivec's quotations from the Gospels for days, seasons,  and festivals.]
Listen, faithful, to Vivec's words, for he says five times and five ways  --
Forge a keen Faith in the crucible of suffering.
Engrave upon thy eye the image of injustice.
Death does not diminish; the ghost gilds with glory.
Faith conquers all. Let us yield to Faith.
Better to suffer a wrong than to do one.
Hear the words of Lord Vivec, and heed his sermons on the Seven Graces,  for he names them seven times and seven ways --
VALOR
DARING
JUSTICE
COURTESY
PRIDE
GENEROSITY
HUMILITY
The Grace of Valor
Thank you for your valor, Lord Vivec. I shall not quail, nor turn away,  but face my enemies and my fear.
The Grace of Daring
Thank you for your daring, Lord Vivec. I shall not shun risk, nor hide  behind the mask of cautious counsel, for fortune favors the bold.
The Grace of Justice
Thank you for your justice, Lord Vivec. I shall be neither cruel nor  arbitrary, for fair dealing earns the love, trust, and respect of our  people.
The Grace of Courtesy
Thank you for your courtesy, Lord Vivec. I shall speak neither hurtful  nor harsh word, but shall speak respectfully, even of my enemies, for  temperate words may turn aside anger.
The Grace of Pride
Thank you for your pride, Lord Vivec. I shall not doubt myself, or my  people, or my gods, and shall insist upon them, and my ancient rights.
The Grace of Generosity
Thank you for your generosity, Lord Vivec. I shall neither hoard nor  steal, nor encumber myself with profitless treasures, but shall share  freely among house and hearth.
The Grace of Humilty
Thank you for your humility, Lord Vivec. I shall neither strut nor preen  in vanity, but shall know and give thanks for my place in the greater  world.