“I've heard of you,” said the old vagabond, very impressed. “Aren't  you the adventurer who slew all those ash vampires in Ghostgate a couple  of months back?”
“That I am,” said Oristian Silverthorn with a weary smile for his  admirer.  He knew that his name was not yet legendary, and it was best  to be polite. “And you are?”
“My name would have no meaning to you, but I'm Erer Darothil,” he  said, raising a glass of greef. “I hail from the region of Ghostgate  which is how I heard your name.  Are you on an adventure as we speak?”
“Yes,” said Silverthorn, with a grim expression. “I'm challenged to  rid The Grazelands of a rogue battlemage by the name of Egroamaro.”
“I've heard of him as well,” said Darothil. “He is said to be very  powerful, an implacable foe.”
“That is why I'm drinking now,” sighed Silverthorn. “So tell me, what  is your profession?”
“I do nothing,” said Darothil with some measure of pride. “But in my  youth, I used to teach the skills of Illusion at the University of  Gwylim.”
“Perhaps you can help me then,” said Silverthorn, suddenly excited.  “Can you teach the spell Silence?  I can certainly pay you.”
“I know that spell,” said Darothil. “You might find Invisibility very  helpful as well, or perhaps Darkness which would allow you to sneak up  on old Egroamaro.”
“No,” said Silverthorn firmly. “I only have time to learn one spell.   I have to kill Egroamaro, collect the award, and be back in Gnisis as  quickly as possible.  My wife worries when I'm away.”
Darothil agreed and, as the two settled back in their seats at the  cornerclub and tossed back glasses of greef, the old man shared his  knowledge of the spell.  He explained what it truly meant to bend sound,  creating a cone of silence as glass can bend light.   He had  Silverthorn close his eyes while he tapped the side of his glass, making  him picture the sound as the physical entity it was, before it was  extinguished.
The adventurer, after a few hours of instruction, paid the old  teacher and set off on his way.  Indoranyon, Egroamaro's stronghold, was  not far from Sadrith Mora, and he soon saw the blight and ruin that was  the battlemage's calling card.  Delving into the depths of the ruins,  Silverthorn was set upon by the servitors of Egroamaro, living and  undead.  With his enchanted ebony blade, he cut through legions before  facing the master himself in the desolate main hall.
Egroamaro bowed to his adversary sardonically, and then prepared to  unleash a fireball to incinerate him.  Before he had uttered the first  word of the spell, he suddenly found that all the creaking and sighing  of the ruins around him had been stilled.  He opened his voice to speak,  but there was no sound.  Silverthorn took his time, strolling across  the length of the hall, before dispatching the battlemage with one  stroke of his blade.
The adventurer rushed back to the Tribunal Temple where he had  received his quest, accepted the gold and the thanks, and was back in  his house in Gnisis but a few days later.  His wife Liah was beside  herself with worry.
“All I could do night after night is toss and turn.  I kept imagining  you burned to ashes by that battlemage, and where would that leave me?   Do we have enough gold that I could support myself if you, Saint Seryn  let it not be so, were killed during one of these jaunts?  I don't think  so.  Why couldn't you get a nice position at the Fighters Guild right  here in town?  I hear they're looking for a trainer for the Imperial  Guard.  I know, I know, you want a life of adventure and danger and  freedom, but if you'd only take one moment to think of me, stuck here  all by myself, worrying about you.  I suppose you'd like it if I took  more of an interest in your work, but it's like I was telling Ser  Calissiah Vignum the other day, I said Calissah, what good is a  husband--”
Liah continued to talk, deaf to the fact that her words were dead  before they left her mouth.  Silverthorn smiled and nodded his head,  enjoying the silence.  He could have killed Egroamaro without the spell,  he considered, but he could not have survived his wife.