Chimere Graegyn was a retainer of the ambitious Direnni clan. The  Direnni derived the bulk of their power from their traffickings with  Daedra, a very profitable but risky path to success. Chimere was perhaps  the cleverest and most ambitious of the Direnni summoners. He dared to  scheme against Lord Dagon, and won. When his trick succeeded, Dagon was  cast into Oblivion. However, in the instant of his betrayal, Dagon  struck out against the mortal who tricked him. Chimere's pact assured  that he would live forever in his home town among the happy voices of  his friends and countrymen. Twisting the literal words of Chimere's  pact, Dagon scooped up tiny Caecilly Island (a small island off the  coast of Northmoor) and hurled in into the void. All Chimere's friends  and countrymen were instantly killed, though the sounds of their voices  remained to torment Chimere's memory. Chimere was condemned to live  forever, to grow progressively old and crippled with arthritis, and to  contemplate the tragic consequences of his defiance of fate and fortune  in cheating a Daedra Lord.
Created by the Daedra Lord Malacath, this armor has the marvelous  property of turning the blow of an oathbreaker. Chimere tricked Dagon  into swearing an oath against the Powers which he had no intention of  keeping. The Hide of the Savior turned Dagon's titanic fury long enough  for Chimere to deliver his own attack -- an incantation invoked upon  Dagon's "Protonymic" (i.e., Incantory True Name). Unfortunately, like  many of Malacath's gifts, the armor is a mixed blessing. It also makes  its wearer exceptionally vulnerable to magical attacks, so one should  only wear it for particular occasions.
Chimere used Dagon's Protonymic in an incantation to invoke a sorcery  that would gradually drain all of Dagon's power into the void. Chimere  miscalculated, however, not realizing that Dagon's resistance could slow  the draining of his power, even if it could not stop it. As a result,  Dagon had the time to curse Chimere with a literal fulfillment of the  terms of his bargain with Chimere. Rather than let his power drain into  the void, Dagon cast it all into his curse. As a result, Caecilly Island  was cast into the void, all its citizens were horribly slain, and  Chimere was condemned to live forever among the ruins of his greatest  ambition.
The Chapel of the Innocent Quarry: Chimere believes that Dagon had  Caecilly Island established as the site of the Chapel of the Innocent  Quarry to personally mock and torment Chimere. The green crystal  structure was created by enchantments, and is the only building on the  island erected since it was ripped from Tamriel and loosed in the void.
Supposedly the Spear of Bitter Mercy used in the Wild Hunts could not  be handled by any mortal or immortal save the ones sanctified to the  Hunt and bound by its strictures. However, Chimere has determined that  though the Spear's power is great, it is not unlimited, and that certain  enchanted items -- for instance, the Armor of the Savior's Hide, forged  by Malacath -- are sufficient to protect a mortal or immortal bearer  from its maleficent energies.