Port of Seyda Neen
Hereas at the general Sessions of the Peace held for the District of  House Hlaalu at the Town of Balmora on the 16th day of First Seed in the  year of the Reign of our Sovereign King Hlaalu Athyn Llethan, by the  Grace of All Gods, King of Morrowind, Duke of Mournhold and Hlaalu  Province; Defender of the People and the Law; Loyal Servant of the  Empire; etc.
Arrille of the Port of Seyda Neen aforesaid, hath entered into  Recognizance with Sureties, before us his Majesty's Magistrates of  Peace, within the said District, whose Names are hereunder written:
We therefore his Majesty's said Magistrates, have hereby Licensed, and  allowed the said Arrille to keep a Common Tradehouse, or Cornerclub, in  the House wherein he now dwelleth, in the Port of Seyda Neen aforesaid,  for three full years, from henceforth next ensuing, or till such other  time as shall be by us, or some of our fellow Magistrates thereunto  appointed; Provided that if the said Arrille do not from time to time  during that time, well and truly observe the Articles hereafter  mentioned, then this License shall presently cease, and be utterly void.
1st Item, That the said Arrille shall not suffer any Stranger, or  unknown Traveler, to Lodge, or Stay, in or about his House, above one  Day and one Night, without making the same known forthwith to the next  Bailiff, or other Officer of this Town, to the end that the said  Stranger, or unknown Traveler may be examined, by some Magistrate of  Peace near adjoining.
2nd Item, That he shall not suffer any playing at Cards, Tables, Dice,  Bowls, Nine-holes, or any other unlawful Game, or any Disorder, or  Outrage in his House, Orchard, Garden, or Back-side, but shall keep good  Order and Rule in his House.
3rd Item, That he shall not suffer any neighbor's Children, Servants, or  Slaves to Tipple in his House at all, nor any other to Tipple in his  house, otherwise than by the Statutes are allowed.
4th Item, That he doe not suffer any to Tipple in hours of Prayer, or  Lesson, on any Emperor's or Festival days, nor at any time after the  eighth hour of Night.
5th Item, That he shall not harbor any Rogues, Vagabonds, Tradeless men,  nor other suspicious Persons, in or about his House.
6th Item, That he shall not Buy or take to Pawn, or suffer to be Bought  or taken to Pawn in his House (to his knowledge) any goods of any  unknown Traveler, or of any Neighbor's children, or Servants, or Slaves,  or of any man's Wife, without the consent of their Parents, Masters, or  Husbands respectively, and if any such Goods be offered to Sale, or  Pawn, by any Stranger, he shall make the same known forthwith to the  next Bailiff, or other Officer of the Town.
7th Item, That he doe not sell his best Drink above Four Drakes the  Gallon, nor the second sort above Two Drakes the Gallon, nor suffer any  Ash-Fowl to be Dressed or Eaten in his House, or on any other Victuals  prohibited by the Laws of this Realm.
8th Item, That he shall not suffer any Bawdry, or Criminal Conversation,  in or about his house, nor shall procure or cause to be Enticed any man  to drink in his house, until he shall be Drunk, or distempered with  Drink.
9th Item, That he shall not suffer any Luting, Drumming, or Dancing, in  or about his house, on any Lesson Day, nor in time of Divine Service, on  any Sacred Festival, or Holy-day.
10th Item, That he shall cause this License to be openly fixed up in the  Hall-Room of his dwelling House, to the end that every one may see what  Articles he is bound to observe.
Dated the day and year first above written.
Undersigned,
Master Velanda Omani
Master Nevena Ules
Master Dram Bero
Master Crassius Curio
Master Yngling Half-Troll