[excerpts]
...The violent antipathy of Morrowind culture toward necromancy ensures  that vampires are virtually unknown in Morrowind...
...The Temple does not acknowledge the existence of Western vampire  hunting orders. Nonetheless, interviews with Temple officials persuade  me that the Dunmer of Morrowind are experienced and knowledgeable in the  handling of these menaces. On the other hand, they freely admit that  even a large community of vampires might easily escape detection in the  remote wastelands, or in the subterranean labyrinths of abandoned  strongholds and wizard towers....
...The "ash vampire" of Ashlander legend is not undead. Sorceries and  blessings affecting the undead reportedly have no effect on these  creatures. No specimen has ever been examined, and no references have  ever linked these legends with the known clans of Tamrielic vampires....
...Vvardenfell's three known bloodlines differ greatly in their approach  to prey. The Quarra bloodline features exceptional strength and  endurance, and attacks in a state of ecstatic frenzy. Aundae vampires  are potent spellcasters, seeking to hypnotize victims before feeding,  while the swift and agile Berne clan vampires prefer stealth and ambush,  first poisoning the victim with a bite, then withdrawing to a safe  distance, returning to feed only when the prey has weakened...
...It is supposed that vampirism is contracted from wounds received from  a vampire. Since few victims survive vampiric attacks or feedings, the  process of contracting the disease is little understood. Some have  suggested that victims may willingly submit themselves to the will of a  vampire, but no real evidence of this exists....
...During the incubation phase, lasting up to 72 hours, the vampirism  disease exhibits no symptoms, and may be cured by general spellcraft or  cult blessings. However, during incubation, some victims have reported  sleep disturbances and troubling dreams. After symptoms are exhibited,  however, the disease is incurable and irreversible....
[excerpts]
... In the West, a shadowy fraternity of vampire hunters is believed to  be primarily composed of formerly afflicted vampires who have been cured  of the disease. According to legend, the Vampire Hunters refuse to  reveal the cure to the disease for fear that it may encourage depraved  thrill seekers from deliberately infecting themselves.
In the East, the Western tradition of Vampire Hunters is unknown.  Vampirism is known to be incurable, and even if it were curable, a cured  vampire would be an abomination to be destroyed. Since the disease is  infallibly cured if treated within three days, failure to treat oneself  after an encounter with a vampire would be considered a deliberate  attempt to contract the disease, and a mark of monstrous depravity....
... In Temple doctrine, one ancient tradition holds that, among his many  other crimes, Molag Bal, the Father of Monsters, spawned the first  vampire upon the corpse of a defeated foe. Several different versions of  this story exist, with the foe variously identified as a Daedra Lord, a  Temple Saint, or a powerful beast creature. This account of the origin  of vampirism is peculiar to Morrowind, appearing nowhere else in  Imperial lore. Unfortunately, scholarly inquiry upon this topic is  discouraged by the Temple, which controls access to the only substantial  collection of historical and cultural records in Morrowind....
... Though the Dunmer believe the disease is incurable, a Buoyant  Armiger of former years named Galur Rithari insisted that he was cured  of vampirism. Initially imprisoned by the Temple for heresy, he later  recanted, was released, and served his final years as a librarian in the  Hall of Wisdom in Vivec. It is interesting that previous to his  imprisonment for heresy, Rithari had been posted to the Buoyant Armiger  garrison at Bal Ur, a pilgrimage site known as the “birthplace of Molag  Bal.”