I am forever swimming around, amidst this ocean world we call home. My  limbs grow weak and weary as my eyes drift skyward in defeat. I remember  how warm the earth felt, as I lived and breathed next to her beating  heart. I remember enough to keep searching through an ocean of tears,  raised to astronomical depths. My dreams offer solace, where I return to  distant, faded times. Through trees entwined with cool autumn air, my  sorrow is lured by fragrant, bittersweet memories. I am at home as much  as my world and consciousness allow. I remember falling into the most  beautiful lake I've ever experienced. She swallowed me whole, like a  droplet, and I was enraptured and enwombed within her bliss. The lonely  windswept desert sky of my soul was filled by her luminous stars and  warmed by her sunlit radiance. I gazed downward in awe and saw it all  reflected in the shimmering ripples dancing and playing about the  surface. It appeared to me as real as the very wonders it was  reflecting. I stepped forward to prove to no one and everyone that they  were, by belief. For an aching instant I was betwixt the two and the  summation. Confusion befell me and I fell through, only to realize I  hadn't entered the lake, I had left it. With all of my remaining life I  howled at the heavens and collapsed, like a star on the shores of my  youth, as my life's breath wandered away from the home it had harbored. I  have been drowning on dry land ever since.
I lay there, coital, for heaven knows how long. I felt eons ebb and flow  in the spans of seconds. I lived as intently as I could in those  endless instants, as the boredom of -after- droned on and on. The fires  of my heart grew dim and became only the faintest embers of the roaring  blaze they had once been. My limbs, heavy with the weight of the world,  protested. I felt the longing of this life which slowly began to ease  the agony in my heart. As I was gradually nursed back to health,  knowledge of record and history tried desperately to fill the yawning,  nauseous chasm of my soul. I began to know the deadpan search for  freedom and forgetfulness, and I released the hold on my life. Though it  still lurched, pained, in front of me, I just stared back with tired,  vacant eyes as if watching the most fascinating of nothing. My mind  drifted, only to be slammed back reluctantly, repeatedly, and painfully  by those I vaguely remember knowing, as if from a different life and  age. I try, in vain, to forgive and forget myself as I paste on those  plaster smiles and strain to look levelly. I remember. I forget. I  forget again. I remember less. I am saddened at the thought that I have  forgotten. I am not who I used to be. Though it pained me so, I was  never so real as those lonely, lost times of my undoing. I am torn  asunder at the thought of losing forever that, which has changed my life  eternally, and that which I fear in the depths of my soul will never be  again. That, which has gifted me with more pain than I have ever known  in all of my lives or all of the lives that I know through my own.
Who am I to ask this of you?