[The following are notes on the Ashlanders and the Nerevarine cult  prepared for you by Hassour Zainsubani]
The Ashlanders are the direct descendants of the Aldmeri peoples who  followed the Prophet Veloth into the lands we now call Morrowind. The  Ashlanders retain the modest nomadic life and simple ancestor worship of  their forebears, and despise the soft lives and decadent worships of  the settled Great House Dunmer cultures. The Wastes are harsh and  unforgiving, and we are a hard people. But there is a beauty and honor  in our simple lives, and the snobs of the Temple and Great Houses are  fools to dismiss us as crude savages.
Ashlanders and foreigners
Most Ashlanders wish all foreigners and their false gods could be driven  from Morrowind. At very least, Ashlanders wish the foreign devils would  leave them in peace. Ashlanders think it shameful to attack unarmed  persons, but they will kill without hesitation an armed person who  offends them or their clan laws. No Ashlander is fool enough to make war  against the Empire. However, if such a war might be won, many  Ashlanders might cheerfully give their lives to win such a war.
Ashlander courtesy
Ashlanders may challenge a stranger who enters a yurt without  invitation. Customs differ with different tribes, but leave when  requested, and you may be forgiven. Be particularly careful about  ashkhans -- tribal chiefs -- and wise women -- tribal seers and  counselors. Some are welcoming, some are hostile. Be courteous, and  leave if requested. If offended, they may attack.
Ashlander challenges
When challenged for sport, it is acceptable to decline. When challenged  for honor, it is shameful to decline. Honor challenges come from offense  given in speech or action, or may represent customary formal challenges  of status or ritual.
Ashlander worship
All Ashlanders in a tribe, young and small, are born into the Ancestor  cult of their clan. The Nerevarine cult is different, though; it is a  very small cult, with only a few wise women with the gift of prophecy,  and a few holy warrior-heroes who guard and protect the seers.  Sul-Matuul, Ashkhan of the Urshilaku, is the Warrior-Protector of the  cult, and Nibani Maesa, also of the Urshilaku, is the Oracle-Seer of the  cult.
Nerevarine cult
They worship the Great Ashkhan and Hortator, Nerevar Moon-and-Star, who  in ages past destroyed the evil, godless dwarves and banished the  treacherous Dagoth Ur and his foul hosts beneath Red Mountain. The cult  is of small consequence in Ashlander worship, and only among the  Urshilaku do its followers have any influence. Others Ashlanders tribes  share the sentiments of the cult, but regard the Nerevarine prophecies  with suspicion and skepticism.
Nerevarine prophecies
It is said that prophecies foretell the return of a reincarnated  Nerevar, who shall drive the foreigners from the Ashlands and who shall  cast down the false gods of the Temple, and restore the true worships of  the Ancestors. It is a dream that would appeal to every Ashlander, but  many Ashlanders think it is a silly ancient legend, and little more.
The Urshilaku Ashlanders
The Urshilaku are the Ashlanders of the northern Ashlands and the West  Gash, in the northwest of Vvardenfell. Ashkhan Sul-Matuul is their  chief, a brave and respected war leader, and Warrior-Protector of the  Nerevarine cult. Nibani Maesa is their wise woman, a deep and shrewd  counselor, and seer of the Nerevarine cult. The Urshilaku camp moves  with the herds, but usually lies close to the Sea of Ghosts, north of  the village of Maar Gan, on the northern coast of the northern Ashlands.